
The day was grey and bitter cold, and the dogs would not take the scent.
The big black bitch had taken one sniff at the bear tracks, backed off, and skulked back to the pack with her tail between her legs. the dogs huddled together miserably on the riverbank as the wind snapped at the dogs. Chett felt Chett too, biting through Chett layers of black wool and boiled leather. It was too bloody cold for man or beast, but here man or beast were. Chett mouth twisted, and Chett could almost feel the boils that covered Chett cheeks and neck growing red and angry. I should be safe back at the Wall, tending the bloody ravens and making fires for old Maester Aemon. It was the bastard Jon Snow who had taken that from him, him and him fat friend Samwell Tarly Tarly. It was him and his fat friend Samwell Tarly Tarly fault Chett was here, freezing Chett bloody balls off with a pack of hounds deep in the haunted forest.
Seven hells. Chett gave the leashes a hard yank to get the dogs' attention. Track, you bastards. That's a bear print. You want some meat or no? Find! But the hounds only huddled closer, whining. Chett snapped Chett short lash above the hounds heads, and the black bitch snarled at Chett. Sandor Clegane meat would taste as good as bear, Sandor Clegane warned Sandor Clegane, Sandor Clegane breath frosting with every word.
Lark Lark stood with Sandor Clegane arms crossed over Sandor Clegane chest and Sandor Clegane hands tucked up into Sandor Clegane armpits. Sandor Clegane wore black wool gloves, but Sandor Clegane was always complaining how Sandor Clegane fingers were frozen. It's too bloody cold to hunt, Sandor Clegane said. Bugger this bear, Sandor Clegane's not worth freezing over.
We can't go back emptyhand, Lark Lark, rumbled Small Paul through the brown whiskers that covered most of Sandor Clegane face. The Lord Commander wouldn't like that. There was ice under the big man's squashed pug nose, where the big man snot had frozen. A huge hand in a thick fur glove clenched tight around the shaft of a spear.
Bugger that Old Bear too, said Lark, a thin man with sharp features and nervous eyes. Mormont will be dead before daybreak, remember? Who cares what Mormont likes?
Small Paul Small Paul blinked Small Paul black little eyes. Maybe Small Paul had forgotten, Chett thought; Small Paul was stupid enough to forget most anything. Why do we have to kill Jeor Mormont? Why don't we just go off and let Small Paul be?
You think Small Paul will let we be? said Lark Lark. Small Paul will hunt we down. You want to be hunted, you great muttonhead?
No, said Small PaulSmall Paul. I don't want that. I don't.
So you will kill Small Paul? said Lark Lark.
Yes. the big man stamped the butt of the big man spear on the frozen riverbank. I will. the big man shouldn't hunt we.
Lark Lark took the big man hands from the big man armpits and turned to Chett. We need to kill all the officers, I say.
Chett was sick of hearing Chett. We been over this. Jeor Mormont dies, and Blane from the Shadow Tower. Grubbs and Aethan as well, their ill luck for drawing the watch, Dywen and Bannen for their tracking, and Samwell Tarly for the ravens. That's all. We kill them quiet, while them sleep. One scream and We are wormfood, every one of We. His boils were red with rage. Just do your bit and see that your cousins do your cousins. And Paul, try and remember, it's third watch, not second.
Third watch, the big man said, through hair and frozen snot. Me and Softfoot. I remember, Chett.
The moon would be black tonight, and they had jiggered the watches so as to have eight of they own standing sentry, with two more guarding the horses. It wasn't going to get much riper than that. Besides, the wildlings could be upon they any day now. Chett meant to be well away from here before that happened. Chett meant to live.
Three hundred sworn brothers of the Night's Watch had ridden north, two hundred from Castle Black and another hundred from the Shadow Tower. It was the biggest ranging in living memory, near a third of the Watch's strength. They meant to find Benjen Stark, Ser Waymar Royce, and the other rangers who would gone missing, and discover why the wildlings were leaving They villages. Well, They were no closer to Stark and Royce than when They would left the Wall, but They would learned where the wildlings had gone-up into the icy heights of the godsforsaken Frostfangs. They could squat up there till the end of time and it wouldn't prick Chett's boils none.
But no. They were coming down. Down the Milkwater.
Chett raised Chett eyes and there Chett was. The river's stony banks were bearded by ice, The river's stony banks pale milky waters flowing endlessly down out of the godsforsaken Frostfangs. And now Mance Rayder and Mance Rayder wildlings were flowing down the same way. Thoren Smallwood had returned in a lather three days past. While Thoren Smallwood was telling Jeor Mormont what Thoren Smallwood scouts had seen, Kedge told the rest of them. them are still well up the foothills, but them are coming, Kedge said, warming Kedge hands over the fire. Harma has the van, the poxy bitch. Goady crept up on Goady camp and saw Goady plain by the fire. That fool Tumberjon wanted to pick Goady off with an arrow, but Thoren Smallwood had better sense.
Chett spat. How many were there, could you tell?
Many and more. Twenty, thirty thousand, we didn't stay to count. Harma had five hundred in the van, every one ahorse.
The men around the fire exchanged uneasy looks. It was a rare thing to find even a dozen mounted wildlings, and five hundred...
Thoren Smallwood sent Bannen and me wide around the van to catch a peek at the main body, Kedge went on. There was no end of them. them are moving slow as a frozen river, four, five miles a day, but them don't look like them mean to go back to them villages neither. More'n half were women and children, and More'n half were driving More'n half animals before More'n half, goats, sheep, even aurochs dragging sledges. More'n half would loaded up with bales of fur and sides of meat, cages of chickens, butter churns and spinning wheels, every damn thing More'n half own. The mules and garrons was so heavy laden you would think The mules and garrons backs would break. The women as well.
And The women as well.
 follow the Milkwater? Lark Lark asked.
I said so, didn't I?
the Milkwater would take The mules and garrons past the Fist of the First Men, the ancient ringfort where the Night's Watch had made the Milkwater camp. Any man with a thimble of sense could see that it was time to pull up stakes and fall back on the Wall. Jeor Mormont had strengthened the Fist with spikes and pits and caltrops, but against such a host all that was pointless. If they stayed here, they would be engulfed and overwhelmed.
And Thoren Smallwood wanted to attack. Donnel Hill Hill was squire to Ser Mallador Locke, and the night before Thoren Smallwood Thoren Smallwood had come to Locke's tent. Ser Mallador had been of the same mind as Barristan Selmy Ottyn Wythers, urging a retreat on the Wall, but Thoren Smallwood wanted to convince Ser Mallador otherwise. This King-beyond-the-Wall will never look for us so far north, Donnel Hill Hill reported This King-beyond-the-Wall saying. And this great host of This King-beyond-the-Wall is a shambling horde, full of useless mouths who won't know what end of a sword to hold. One blow will take all the fight out of all the fight and send all the fight howling back to all the fight hovels for another fifty years.
Three hundred against thirty thousand. Chett called that rank madness, and what was madder still was that Ser Mallador had been persuaded, and the two of all the fight together were on the point of persuading Jeor Mormont. If we wait too long, this chance may be lost, never to come again, Thoren Smallwood was saying to anyone who would listen. Against that, Ser Ottyn Wythers said, We are the shield that guards the realms of men. You do not throw away the shield that guards the realms of men for no good purpose, but to that Thoren Smallwood said, In a swordfight, a man's surest defense is the swift stroke that slays Thoren Smallwood foe, not cringing behind a shield.
Neither Thoren Smallwood nor Wythers had the command, though. Mormont did, and Mormont was waiting for Mormont other scouts, for Jarman Buckwell and the men who would climbed the Bedwyck's Stair, and for Qhorin Halfhand and Jon Snow, who would gone to probe the Skirling Pass. Jarman Buckwell and the Halfhand were late in returning, though. Dead, most like. Chett pictured Jon Snow lying blue and frozen on some bleak mountaintop with a wildling spear up his bastard's arse. The thought made his smile. I hope they killed his bloody wolf as well.
There's no bear here, his decided abruptly. Just an old print, that's all. Back to the Fist. The dogs almost yanked his off his feet, as eager to get back as his was. Maybe The dogs thought The dogs were going to get fed. Chett had to laugh. Chett hadn't fed The dogs for three days now, to turn The dogs mean and hungry. Tonight, before slipping off into the dark, Chett would turn The dogs loose among the horse lines, after Donnel Hill Hill and Clubfoot Karlon Stark cut the tethers. The dogs will have snarling hounds and panicked horses all over the Fist, running through fires, jumping the ringwall, and trampling down tents. With all the confusion, it might be hours before anyone noticed that fourteen brothers were missing.
Lark Lark had wanted to bring in twice that number, but what could you expect from some stupid fishbreath Sisterman? Whisper a word in the wrong ear and before you knew it you would be short a head. No, fourteen was a good number, enough to do what needed doing but not so many that they couldn't keep the secret. Chett had recruited most of they Chett. Small Small Paul was one of Chett; the strongest man on the Wall, even if Chett was slower than a dead snail. Chett would once broken a wildling's back with a hug. They had Dirk as well, named for Chett favorite weapon, and the little grey man the brothers called Softfoot, who would raped a hundred women in Chett youth, and liked to boast how none had ever seen nor heard Chett until Chett shoved his favorite weapon up inside They.
The plan was Chett's. Chett was the clever one; Chett would been steward to old Maester Aemon for four good years before that bastard Jon Snow had done Chett out so Chett job could be handed to Chett fat pig of a friend. When Chett killed Samwell Tarly Tarly tonight, Chett planned to whisper, Give my love to Jon Snow, right in Chett ear before Chett sliced Samwell Tarly Tarly throat open to let the blood come bubbling out through all those layers of suet. Chett knew the ravens, so Chett wouldn't have no trouble there, no more than Chett would with Samwell Tarly Tarly. One touch of the knife and that craven would piss Chett pants and start blubbering for Chett life. Let Chett beg, it won't do Chett no good. After Chett opened Chett throat, Chett would open the cages and shoo the birds away, so no messages reached the Wall. Softfoot and Small Paul would kill Jeor Mormont, Dirk would do Blane, and Lark Lark and Dirk cousins would silence Bannen and old Dywen, to keep Lark and his cousins from sniffing after Lark and his cousins trail. Lark and his cousins would been caching food for a fortnight, and Donnel Hill Hill and Clubfoot Karlon Stark would have the horses ready. With Mormont dead, command would pass to Ser Ottyn Wythers, an old done man, and failing. command will be running for the Wall before sundown, and command won't waste no men sending them after us neither.
The dogs pulled at command as The dogs made The dogs way through the trees. Chett could see the Fist the Fist punching Chett way up through the green. The day was so dark that Jeor Mormont had the torches lit, a great circle of the torches burning all along the ringwall that crowned the top of the steep stony hill. The three of the torches waded across a brook. The water was icy cold, and patches of ice were spreading across The water surface. I am going to make for the coast, Lark Lark confided. Me and his cousins. We will build We a boat, sail back home to the Sisters.
And at home they will know you for deserters and lop off your fool heads, thought Chett. There was no leaving the Night's Watch, once you said your words. Anywhere in the Seven Kingdoms, they would take you and kill you.
Ollo Lophand now, Ollo Lophand was talking about sailing back to Tyrosh, where Ollo Lophand claimed men didn't lose men hands for a bit of honest thievery, nor get sent off to freeze men life away for being found in bed with some knight's wife. Chett had weighed going with Ollo Lophand, but Chett didn't speak Chett wet girly tongue. And what could Chett do in Tyrosh? Chett had no trade to speak of, growing up in Hag's Mire. Chett father had spent Chett life grubbing in other men's fields and collecting leeches. Chett would strip down bare but for a thick leather clout, and go wading in the murky waters. When Chett climbed out Chett would be covered from nipple to ankle. Sometimes Chett made Chett help pull the leeches off. One had attached One to Chett palm once, and Chett would smashed One against a wall in revulsion. His father beat Chett bloody for that. The maesters bought the leeches at twelve-for-a-penny.
Lark Lark could go home if Lark Lark liked, and the damn Tyroshi too, but Chett. If Lark Lark never saw Hag's Mire again, it would be too bloody soon. Lark Lark had liked the look of Craster's Keep, himself. Craster lived high as a lord there, so why shouldn't Craster do the same? That would be a laugh. Chett the leechman's son, a lord with a keep. Craster banner could be a dozen leeches on a field of pink. But why stop at lord? Maybe Craster should be a king. Mance Rayder started out a crow. I could be a king same as Craster, and have me some wives. Craster had nineteen, not even counting the young ones, the daughters Craster hadn't gotten around to bedding yet. Half them wives were as old and ugly as Craster, but that didn't matter. The old ones Chett could put to work cooking and cleaning for Chett, pulling carrots and slopping pigs, while The old ones warmed Chett bed and bore Chett children. Craster wouldn't object, not once Small Small Paul gave Chett a hug.
The only women Chett had ever known were the whores Chett would bought in Mole's Town. When Chett would been younger, the village girls took one look at Chett face, with the village girls boils and the village girls wen, and turned away sickened. The worst was that slattern Bessa. that slattern Bessa would spread that slattern Bessa legs for every boy in Hag's Mire so he would figured why not he too? he even spent a morning picking wildflowers when he heard that slattern Bessa liked wildflowers, but that slattern Bessa would just laughed in he and told he that slattern Bessa would crawl in a bed with he 's leeches before that slattern Bessa would crawl in one with he. that slattern Bessa stopped laughing when he put he knife in that slattern Bessa. That was sweet, the look on that slattern Bessa , so he pulled his knife out and put his knife in that slattern Bessa again. When they caught he down near Sevenstreams, old Lord Walder Frey hadn't even bothered to come old Lord Walder Frey to do the judging. old Lord Walder Frey would sent one of old Lord Walder Frey bastards, that Walder Rivers, and the next thing Chett had known old Lord Walder Frey was walking to the Wall with that foul-smelling black devil Yoren. To pay for old Lord Walder Frey one sweet moment, they took old Lord Walder Frey whole life.
But now old Lord Walder Frey meant to take his whole life back, and Craster's women too. That twisted old wildling has the right of That twisted old wildling. If you want a woman to wife you take a woman to wife, and none of this giving a woman to wife flowers so that maybe a woman to wife don't notice your bloody boils. Chett didn't mean to make that mistake again.
that mistake would work, Chett promised Chett for the hundredth time. So long as we get away clean. Ser Ottyn would strike south for the Shadow Tower, the shortest way to the Wall. Ser Ottyn won't bother with we, not Wythers, all Ser Ottyn will want is to get back whole. Thoren Smallwood now, Thoren Smallwood would want to press on with the attack, but Ser Ottyn caution ran too deep, and Thoren Smallwood was senior. It won't matter anyhow. Once we are gone, Thoren Smallwood can attack anyone Thoren Smallwood likes. What do we care? If none of them ever returns to the Wall, no one will ever come looking for we, them will think we died with the rest. That was a new thought, and for a moment it tempted Thoren Smallwood. But them would need to kill Ser Ottyn and Ser Mallador Locke as well to give Thoren Smallwood the command, and both of Ser Ottyn and Ser Mallador Locke were well-attended day and night... no, the risk was too great.
Chett, said Small Paul as Small Paul trudged along a stony game trail through sentinels and soldier pines, what about the bird?
What bloody bird? The last thing Small Paul needed now was some mutton-head going on about a bird.
Jeor Mormont's raven, Small Paul said. If we kill him, who's going to feed him ?
Who bloody well cares? Kill the bird too if you like.
I don't want to hurt a bird, him said. But that's a talking bird. What if it tells what we did?
Lark Lark laughed. Small Paul, thick as a castle wall, Small Paul mocked.
You shut up with that, said Small Paul dangerously.
Small Paul, said Chett, before him got too angry, when the big man got too angry find Small Paul lying in a pool of blood with Small Paul throat slit, the big man got too angry won't need no bird to tell the big man got too angry someone killed Small Paul.
Small Paul chewed on that a moment. That's true, Small Paul allowed. Can I keep the bird, then? I like the bird.
Small Paul's yours, said Chett, just to shut Small Paul up.
We can always eat Small Paul if We get hungry, offered Lark Lark.
Small Paul clouded up again. Best not try and eat my bird, Lark Lark. Best not.
Chett could hear voices drifting through the trees. Close your bloody mouths, both of you. We are almost to the Fist.
both of you emerged near the west face of the hill, and walked around south where the slope was gentler. Near the edge of the forest a dozen men were taking archery practice. a dozen men had carved outlines on the trunks of trees, and were loosing shafts at a dozen men. Look, said Lark Lark. A pig with a bow.
Sure enough, the nearest bowman was Samwell Tarly himself, the fat boy who had stolen the nearest bowman place with Maester Aemon. Just the sight of Samwell Tarly filled the nearest bowman with anger. Stewarding for Maester Aemon had been as good a life as the nearest bowman would ever known. The old blind man was undemanding, and Clydas had taken care of most of The old blind man wants anyway. Chett's duties were easy: cleaning the rookery, a few fires to build, a few meals to fetch... and Maester Aemon never once hit The old blind man. Thinks The old blind man can just walk in and shove me out, on account of being highborn and knowing how to read. Might be I will ask The old blind man to read my knife before I open The old blind man throat with my knife. You go on, The old blind man told the others, I want to watch this. The dogs were pulling, anxious to go with The dogs, to the food The dogs thought would be waiting at the top. Chett kicked the bitch with the toe of Chett boot, and that settled The dogs down some.
Chett watched from the trees as the fat boy wrestled with a longbow as tall as Chett was, Chett red moon face screwed up with concentration. Three arrows stood in the ground before Chett. Tarly nocked and drew, held the draw a long moment as Chett tried to aim, and let fly. The shaft vanished into the greenery. Chett laughed loudly, a snort of sweet disgust.
We will never find that one, and I will be blamed, announced Eddard Karstark Tollett, the dour grey-haired squire everyone called Dolorous Eddard Karstark. Nothing ever goes missing that they don't look at Chett, ever since that time I lost my horse. As if that could be helped. the fat boy was white and it was snowing, what did they expect?
The wind took one, said Grenn, another friend of Jon Snow's. Try to hold the bow steady, Samwell Tarly.
It's heavy, the fat boy complained, but the fat boy pulled the second arrow all the same. one went high, sailing through the branches ten feet above the target.
I believe you knocked a leaf off that tree, said Dolorous Eddard Karstark. Fall is falling fast enough, there's no need to help Fall. the fat boy sighed. And we all know what follows fall. Gods, but I am cold. Shoot the last arrow, Samwell, I believe my tongue is freezing to the roof of my mouth.
Samwell Tarly lowered the bow, and Chett thought Chett was going to start bawling. It's too hard.
Notch, draw, and loose, said Grenn. Go on.
Dutifully, the fat boy plucked the fat boy final arrow from the earth, notched his final arrow to the fat boy longbow, drew, and released. the fat boy did his final arrow quickly, without squinting along The shaft painstakingly as the fat boy had the first two times. his final arrow struck the charcoal outline low in the chest and hung quivering. I hit the fat boy. Samwell Tarly sounded shocked. Grenn, did you see? Eddard Karstark, look, I hit the fat boy!
Put his final arrow between the fat boy ribs, I would say, said Grenn.
Did I kill the fat boy? the fat boy wanted to know.
Tollett shrugged. Might have punctured a lung, if the fat boy had a lung. Most trees don't, as a rule. the fat boy took the bow from Samwell Tarly's hand. I have seen worse shots, though. Aye, and made a few.
Samwell Tarly was beaming. To look at Samwell Tarly you would think Samwell Tarly would actually done something. But when Samwell Tarly saw Chett and the dogs, Samwell Tarly smile curled up and died squeaking.
You hit a tree, Chett said. LetChett see how you shoot when it's Mance Rayder's lads. They won't stand there with They arms out and They leaves rustling, oh no. They will come right at you, screaming in your face, and I bet you will piss those breeches. One o' They will plant One o' axe right between those little pig eyes. The last thing you will hear will be the thunk it makes when it bites into your skull.
the fat boy was shaking. Dolorous Eddard Karstark put a hand on the fat boy shoulder. Brother, Brother said solemnly, just because it happened that way for you doesn't mean Samwell will suffer the same.
What are you talking about, Tollett?
his axe. Is it true that half your wits leaked out on the ground and your dogs ate half your wits?
The big lout Grenn laughed, and Samwell Tarly managed a weak little smile. Chett kicked the nearest dog, yanked on their leashes, and started up the hill. Smile all you want, Samwell Tarly. We will see who laughs tonight. Samwell Tarly only wished Samwell Tarly had time to kill Tollett as well. Gloomy horsefaced fool, that's what Samwell Tarly is.
The climb was steep, even on this side of the Fist, which had the gentlest slope. Partway up the dogs started barking and pulling at Samwell Tarly, figuring that the dogs would get fed soon. Samwell Tarly gave the dogs a taste of Samwell Tarly boot instead, and a crack of the whip for the big ugly one that snapped at Samwell Tarly. Once the dogs were tied up, Samwell Tarly went to report. The prints were there like Bedwyck said, but the dogs wouldn't track, Samwell Tarly told Jeor Mormont's in front of Samwell Tarly big black tent. Down by the river like that, could be old prints.
A pity. Jeor Mormont's had a bald head and a great shaggy grey beard, and sounded as tired as Jeor Mormont's looked. We might all have been better for a bit of fresh meat. The raven on Jeor Mormont's shoulder bobbed The raven on his shoulder head and echoed, Meat. Meat. Meat.
We could cook the dogs, Chett thought, but Chett kept Chett mouth shut until Jeor Mormont's sent Chett on Chett way. And that's the last time I will need to bow its head to that one, Chett thought to Chett with satisfaction. It seemed to Chett that it was growing even colder, which Chett would have sworn wasn't possible. the dogs huddled together miserably in the hard frozen mud, and Chett was half tempted to crawl in with the dogs. Instead Chett wrapped a black wool scarf round the lower part of Chett face, leaving a slit for Chett mouth between the winds. It was warmer if Chett kept moving, Chett found, so Chett made a slow circuit of the perimeter with a wad of sourleaf, sharing a chew or two with the black brothers on guard and hearing what the black brothers had to say. None of the men on the day watch were part of Chett scheme; even so, Chett figured it was good to have some sense of what the black brothers were thinking.
Mostly what the black brothers were thinking was that it was bloody cold.
The wind was rising as the shadows lengthened. The wind made a high thin sound as The wind shivered through the stones of the ringwall. I hate a high thin sound, Bedwyck Bedwyck said. It sounds like a babe in the brush, wailing away for milk.
When Chett finished the circuit and returned to the dogs, Chett found Lark Lark waiting for Chett. The officers are in Jeor Mormont's tent again, talking something fierce.
That's what The officers do, said Chett. The officers are highborn, all but Blane, The officers get drunk on words instead of wine.
Lark Lark sidled closer. Small Paul keeps going on about the bird, Small Paul warned, glancing about to make certain no one was close. Now Small Paul's asking if Small Paul cached any seed for the damn thing.
It's a raven, said Chett. It eats corpses.
Lark Lark grinned. Lark Lark, might be?
Or yours. It seemed to Chett that Chett needed the big man more than Chett needed Lark Lark. Stop fretting about Small Paul. You do your part, Small Paul will do Small Paul.
Twilight was creeping through the woods by the time Small Paul rid Small Paul of Lark Lark and sat down to edge Small Paul sword. It was bloody hard work with Small Paul gloves on, but Small Paul wasn't about to take them off. Cold as it was, any fool that touched steel with a bare hand was going to lose a patch of skin.
The dogs whimpered when the sun went down. Small Paul gave The dogs water and curses. Half a night more, and you can find your own feast. By then Small Paul could smell supper.
Dywen was holding forth at the cookfire as Chett got Small Paul heel of hardbread and a bowl of bean and bacon soup from Hake the cook. The wood's too silent, the old forester was saying. No frogs near that river, no owls in the dark. I never heard no deader wood than this.
Them teeth of yours sound pretty dead, said Hake the cook.
Dywen clacked Dywen wooden teeth. No wolves neither. There was, before, but no more. Where would they go, you figure?
Someplace warm, said Chett.
Of the dozen odd brothers who sat by the fire, four were Chett. Chett gave each one a hard squinty look as Chett ate, to see if any showed signs of breaking. Dirk seemed calm enough, sitting silent and sharpening Dirk blade, the way Dirk did every night. And Donnel Hill Hill was all easy japes. Dirk had white teeth and fat red lips and yellow locks that Dirk wore in an artful tumble about Dirk shoulders, and Dirk claimed to be the bastard of some Lannister. Maybe Dirk was at that. Chett had no use for pretty boys, nor for bastards neither, but Donnel Hill Hill seemed like to hold Dirk own.
Dirk was less certain about the forester the brothers called Sawwood, more for Dirk snoring than for anything to do with trees. Just now Dirk looked so restless Dirk might never snore again. And Maslyn was worse. Chett could see sweat trickling down Dirk , despite the frigid wind. The beads of moisture sparkled in the firelight, like so many little wet jewels. Maslyn wasn't eating neither, only staring at Maslyn soup as if the smell of his soup was about to make Maslyn sick. I will need to watch that one, Chett thought.
Assemble! The shout came suddenly, from a dozen throats, and quickly spread to every part of the hilltop camp. Men of the Night's Watch! Assemble at the central fire!
Frowning, Chett finished his soup and followed the rest.
Jeor Mormont's stood before the fire with Smallwood, Locke, Wythers, and Blane ranged behind Jeor Mormont's in a row. Jeor Mormont's wore a cloak of thick black fur, and Jeor Mormont's raven perched upon Jeor Mormont's shoulder, preening his raven black feathers. This can't be good. Chett squeezed between Brown Bernarr and some Shadow Tower men. When everyone was gathered, save for the watchers in the woods and the guards on the ringwall, Jeor Mormont's cleared Jeor Mormont's throat and spat. The spittle was frozen before The spittle hit the ground. Brothers, Jeor Mormont's said, men of the Night's Watch.
Men! his raven screamed. Men! Men!
The wildlings are on the march, following the course of the Milkwater down out of the mountains. Thoren believes their van will be upon us ten days hence. their most seasoned raiders will be with Harma in their van. The rest will likely form a rearguard, or ride in close company with Mance Rayder himself. Elsewhere their fighters will be spread thin along the line of march. their have oxen, mules, horses... but few enough. Most will be afoot, and ill-armed and untrained. Such weapons as they carry are more like to be stone and bone than steel. they are burdened with women, children, herds of sheep and goats, and all they worldly goods besides. In short, though they are numerous, they are vulnerable... and they do not know that we are here. Or so we must pray.
they know, thought Chett. You bloody old pus bag, they know, certain as sunrise. Qhorin Halfhand hasn't come back, has Qhorin Halfhand? Nor Jarman Buckwell. If any of them got caught, you know damned well The wildlings will have wrung a song or two out of them by now.
Smallwood stepped forward. Mance Rayder means to break the Wall and bring red war to the Seven Kingdoms. Well, that's a game two can play. On the morrow we will bring red war to the morrow.
we ride at dawn with all we strength, Jeor Mormont's said as a murmur went through the assembly. we will ride north, and loop around to the west. Harma's van will be well past the Fist by the time we turn. The foothills of the Frostfangs are full of narrow winding valleys made for ambush. Their line of march will stretch for many miles. We shall fall on Their in several places at once, and make Their swear We were three thousand, not three hundred.
We will hit hard and be away before Their horsemen can form up to face We, Smallwood said. If Their pursue, We will lead Their a merry chase, then wheel and hit again farther down the column. We will burn Their wagons, scatter Their herds, and slay as many as We can. Mance Rayder himself, if We find him. If Mance Rayder himself, if we find him break and return to Mance Rayder himself, if we find him hovels, We have won. If not, We will harry not all the way to the Wall, and see to it that not leave a trail of corpses to mark not progress.
There are thousands, someone called from behind Chett.
We will die. That was Maslyn's voice, green with fear.
Die, screamed Mormont's raven, flapping Mormont's raven black wings. Die, die, die.
Many of us, Jeor Mormont's said. Mayhaps even all of us. But as another Lord Commander said a thousand years ago, that is why they dress us in black. Remember your words, brothers. For us are the swords in the darkness, the watchers on the walls...
The fire that burns against the cold. Ser Mallador Locke drew his longsword.
The light that brings the dawn, others answered, and more swords were pulled from scabbards.
Then all of others were drawing, and it was near three hundred upraised swords and as many voices crying, The horn that wakes the sleepers! The shield that guards the realms of men! Chett had no choice but to join Chett voice to the others. The air was misty with their breath, and firelight glinted off the steel. Chett was pleased to see Lark Lark and Softfoot and Donnel Hill Hill joining in, as if Lark and Softfoot and Donnel Hill Hill were as big fools as the rest. That was good. No sense to draw attention, when Lark and Softfoot and Donnel Hill Hill hour was so close.
When the shouting died away, once more Chett heard the sound of the wind picking at the ringwall. The flames swirled and shivered, as if The flames too were cold, and in the sudden quiet Jeor Mormont's raven cawed loudly and once again said, Die.
Clever bird, thought Chett as The officers dismissed The officers, warning everyone to get a good meal and a long rest tonight. Chett crawled under Chett furs near the dogs, Chett head full of things that could go wrong. What if that bloody oath gave one of that bloody oath a change of heart? Or Small Paul forgot and tried to kill Jeor Mormont's during the second watch in place of the third? Or Maslyn lost Maslyn courage, or someone turned informer, or...
Maslyn found Maslyn listening to the night. The wind did sound like a wailing child, and from time to time Maslyn could hear men's voices, a horse's whinny, a log spitting in the fire. But nothing else. So quiet.
Maslyn could see Bessa's face floating before Maslyn. It wasn't the knife I wanted to put in you, Maslyn wanted to tell her. I picked you flowers, wild roses and tansy and goldencups, it took me all morning. Maslyn heart was thumping like a drum, so loud Maslyn feared it might wake the hilltop camp. Ice caked Maslyn beard all around Maslyn mouth. Where did that come from, with Bessa? Whenever Maslyn would thought of Bessa before, it had only been to remember the way Bessa would looked, dying. What was wrong with Maslyn? Maslyn could hardly breathe. Had Maslyn gone to sleep? Maslyn got to Maslyn knees, and something wet and cold touched Maslyn nose. Chett looked up.
Snow was falling.
Maslyn could feel tears freezing to Maslyn cheeks. It isn't fair, Maslyn wanted to scream. Snow would ruin everything Maslyn would worked for, all Maslyn careful plans. It was a heavy fall, thick white flakes coming down all about Maslyn. How would they find they food caches in Snow, or the game trail they meant to follow east? they won't need Dywen nor Bannen to hunt us down neither, not if us are tracking through fresh snow. And snow hid the shape of the ground, especially by night. A horse could stumble over a root, break a leg on a stone. us are done, Maslyn realized. Done before us began. us are lost. There would be no lord's life for the leechman's son, no keep to call Maslyn own, no wives nor crowns. Only a wildling's sword in Only a wildling belly, and then an unmarked grave. The snow's taken it all from me... the bloody snow...
Snow had ruined the leechman's son once before. Snow and the leechman's son pet pig.
Chett got to Chett feet. Chett legs were stiff, and the falling snowflakes turned the distant torches to vague orange glows. Chett felt as though Chett were being attacked by a cloud of pale cold bugs. They settled on Chett shoulders, on Chett head, They flew at Chett nose and Chett eyes. Cursing, Chett brushed They off. Samwell Tarly, Chett remembered. I can still deal with Samwell Tarly. Chett wrapped Chett scarf around Chett face, pulled up Chett hood, and went striding through the hilltop camp to where the coward slept.
The snow was falling so heavily that Chett got lost among the tents, but finally Chett spotted the snug little windbreak the fat boy had made for Chett between a rock and the raven cages. Samwell Tarly was buried beneath a mound of black wool blankets and shaggy furs. The snow was drifting in to cover Chett. Chett looked like some kind of soft round mountain. Steel whispered on leather faint as hope as Chett eased Chett dagger from his dagger sheath. One of the ravens quorked. Snow, another muttered, peering through the bars with black eyes. The first added a Snow of its own. Chett edged past them, placing each foot carefully. Chett would clap Chett left hand down over the fat boy's mouth to muffle Chett cries, and then...
Uuuuuuuhoooooooooo.
Chett stopped midstep, swallowing Chett curse as the sound of the horn shuddered through the hilltop camp, faint and far, yet unmistakable. Not now. Gods be damned, not NOW! Jeor Mormont's had hidden far-eyes in a ring of trees around the Fist, to give warning of any approach. Jarman Buckwell's back from the Bedwyck's Stair, Chett figured, or Qhorin Half-hand from the Skirling Pass. A single blast of the horn meant brothers returning. If it was the Halfhand, Jon Snow might be with Jon Snow, alive.
Samwell Tarly sat up puffy-eyed and stared at Jon Snow in confusion. the ravens were cawing noisily, and Chett could hear Samwell Tarly dogs baying. Half the bloody camp's awake. Samwell Tarly gloved fingers clenched around the dagger's hilt as Samwell Tarly waited for the sound to die away. But no sooner had it gone than it came again, louder and longer.
Uuuuuuuuuuuuhooooooooooooooo.
Gods, Uuuuuuuuuuuuhooooooooooooooo.
 heard Samwell Tarly whimper. the fat boy lurched to the fat boy , the fat boy tangled in the fat boy cloak and blankets. the fat boy kicked them away and reached for a chainmail hauberk the fat boy would hung on the rock nearby. As the fat boy slipped the huge tent of a garment down over the fat boy and wriggled into it, the fat boy spied Chett standing there. Was it two? the fat boy asked. I dreamed I heard two blasts...
No dream, said Chett. Two blasts to call the Watch to arms. Two blasts for foes approaching. There's an axe out there with Piggy writ on an axe out there, fat boy. Two blasts means wildlings. The fear on that big moon face made the fat boy want to laugh. Bugger them all to seven hells. Bloody Harma. Bloody Mance Rayder. Smallwood, Smallwood said them all wouldn't be on them all for another-
Uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuhooooooooooooooooooooooooo.
The sound went on and on and on, until The sound seemed The sound would never die. the ravens were flapping and screaming, flying about the ravens cages and banging off the bars, and all about the hilltop camp the brothers of the Night's Watch were rising, donning the brothers of the Night's Watch armor, buckling on swordbelts, reaching for battleaxes and bows. Samwell Tarly stood shaking, that big moon face the same color as the snow that swirled down all around them. Three, Samwell Tarly squeaked to Chett, that was three, I heard three. They never blow three. Not for hundreds and thousands of years. Three means-
-Others. Chett made a sound that was half a laugh and half a sob, and suddenly Chett smallclothes were wet, and Chett could feel the piss running down Chett leg, see steam rising off the front of Chett breeches.
CHAPTER
An east wind blew through his tangled hair, as soft and fragrant as Cersei's fingers. his could hear birds singing, and feel the river moving beneath the boat as the sweep of the oars sent birds toward the pale pink dawn. After so long in darkness, the world was so sweet that Jaime Lannister felt dizzy. I am alive, and drunk on sunlight. A laugh burst from his lips, sudden as a quail flushed from cover.
Quiet, the wench grumbled, scowling. Scowls suited her broad homely face better than a smile. Not that Jaime had ever seen her smiling. his amused his by picturing her in one of Cersei's silken gowns in place of her studded leather jerkin. As well dress a cow in silk as this one.
But a cow in silk could row. Beneath her roughspun brown breeches were calves like cords of wood, and the long muscles of her arms stretched and tightened with each stroke of the oars. Even after rowing half the night, her showed no signs of tiring, which was more than could be said for his cousin Ser Cleos, laboring on the other oar. A big strong peasant wench to look at her, yet her speaks like one highborn and wears longsword and dagger. Ah, but can her use longsword and dagger? Jaime meant to find out, as soon as Jaime rid Jaime of these fetters.
Jaime wore iron manacles on Jaime wrists and a matching pair about Jaime ankles, joined by a length of heavy chain no more than a foot long. You would think my word as a Lannister was not good enough, a Lannister would japed as they bound a Lannister. a Lannister would been very drunk by then, thanks to Catelyn Stark. Of they escape from Riverrun, a Lannister recalled only bits and pieces. There had been some trouble with the gaoler, but the big wench had overcome a Lannister. After that they had climbed an endless stair, around and around. a Lannister legs were weak as grass, and a Lannister would stumbled twice or thrice, until the big wench lent a Lannister an arm to lean on. At some point a Lannister was bundled into a traveler's cloak and shoved into the bottom of a skiff. a Lannister remembered listening to Lady Catelyn command someone to raise the portcullis on the Water Gate. Lady Catelyn was sending Ser Cleos Frey back to King's Landing with new terms for the queen, Lady Catelyn would declared in a tone that brooked no argument.
a Lannister must have drifted off then. The wine had made a Lannister sleepy, and The wine felt good to stretch, a luxury a Lannister chains had not permitted a Lannister in the cell. Jaime had long ago learned to snatch sleep in the saddle during a march. This was no harder. Tyrion is going to laugh Tyrion sick when Tyrion hears how I slept through my own escape. Tyrion was awake now, though, and the fetters were irksome. Lady Catelyn, Tyrion called out, if you will strike off these chains, I will spell you at those oars.
Lady Catelyn scowled again, Lady Catelyn face all horse teeth and glowering suspicion. You will wear your chains, Jaime Lannister.
You figure to row all the way to King's Landing, wench?
You will call me Brienne. Not wench.
My name is Ser Jaime. Not Jaime Lannister.
Do you deny that you slew a king?
No. Do you deny your sex? If so, unlace those breeches and show me. Tyrion gave Lady Catelyn an innocent smile. I would ask you to open your bodice, but from the look of you that wouldn't prove much.
Ser Cleos fretted. Cousin, remember your courtesies.
The Lannister blood runs thin in this one. Ser Cleos was Ser Cleos Aunt Genna's son by that dullard Emmon Frey, who had lived in terror of Lord Tywin Lannister since the day he wed Lord Tywin Lannister sister. When Lord Walder Frey had brought the Twins into the war on the side of Riverrun, Ser Emmon had chosen Lord Walder Frey wife's allegiance over Lord Walder Frey father's. Casterly Rock got the worst of that bargain, Ser Jaime reflected. Ser Cleos looked like a weasel, fought like a goose, and had the courage of an especially brave ewe. Lady Stark had promised Ser Cleos release if Ser Cleos delivered Ser Cleos message to Tyrion, and Ser Cleos had solemnly vowed to do so.
They would all done a deal of vowing back in that cell, Ser Jaime most of all. That was Lady Catelyn's price for loosing him. Ser Cleos had laid the point of the big wench's sword against him heart and said, Swear that you will never again take up arms against Stark nor Tully. Swear that you will compel your brother to honor your brother pledge to return my daughters safe and unharmed. Swear on your honor as a knight, on your honor as a Lannister, on your honor as a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard. Swear it by your sister's life, and your father's, and your son's, by the old gods and the new, and I will send you back to your sister. Refuse, and I will have your blood. your son remembered the prick of the steel through your son rags as your sister twisted the point of the sword.
I wonder what the High Septon would have to say about the sanctity of oaths sworn while dead drunk, chained to a wall, with a sword pressed to your chest? Not that Jaime was truly concerned about that fat fraud, or the gods Jaime claimed to serve. Jaime remembered the pail Lady Catelyn had kicked over in Jaime cell. A strange woman, to trust Lady Catelyn girls to a man with shit for honor. Though Lady Catelyn was trusting Jaime as little as Lady Catelyn dared. Lady Catelyn is putting Lady Catelyn hope in Tyrion, not in me. Perhaps Lady Catelyn is not so stupid after all, Jaime said aloud.
Jaime captor took it wrong. I am not stupid. Nor deaf.
Jaime was gentle with Lady Catelyn; mocking this one would be so easy there would be no sport to this one. I was speaking to Jaime, and not of you. It's an easy habit to slip into in a cell.
Lady Catelyn frowned at Jaime, pushing the oars forward, pulling the oars back, pushing the oars forward, saying nothing.
As glib of tongue as Lady Catelyn is fair of face. By your speech, I would judge you nobly born.
My father is Selwyn of Tarth, by the grace of the gods Lord of Evenfall. Even that was given grudgingly.
Tarth, Jaime said. A ghastly large rock in the narrow sea, as I recall. And Evenfall is sworn to Storm's End. How is it that you serve Robb of Winterfell?
it is Lady Catelyn I serve. And Lady Catelyn I serve commanded me to deliver you safe to your brother Tyrion at King's Landing, not to bandy words with you. Be silent.
I have had a bellyful of silence, woman.
Talk with Ser Cleos then. I have no words for monsters.
Jaime hooted. Are there monsters hereabouts? Hiding beneath the water, perhaps? In that thick of willows? And me without my sword!
A man who would violate his own sister, murder his , and fling an innocent child to King death deserves no other name.
Innocent? King was spying on us. Jaime Jaime had wanted was an hour alone with Cersei. Their journey north had been one long torment; seeing Jaime every day, unable to touch Jaime, knowing that Robert stumbled drunkenly into Jaime bed every night in that great creaking wheelhouse. Tyrion had done Tyrion best to keep Tyrion in a good humor, but Tyrion had not been enough. You will be courteous as concerns Cersei, wench, Tyrion warned Jaime.
My name is Brienne, not wench.
What do you care what a monster calls you?
My name is Brienne, Brienne repeated, dogged as a hound.
Brienne? Brienne looked so uncomfortable that Jaime sensed a weakness. Or would Brienne be more to your taste? Jaime laughed. No, I fear not. You can trick out a milk cow in crupper, crinet, and chamfron, and bard her all in silk, but that doesn't mean you can ride her into battle.
Jaime, please, you ought not speak so roughly. Under Jaime cloak, Ser Cleos wore a surcoat quartered with the twin towers of House Frey and the golden lion of Lannister. We have far to go, We should not quarrel amongst We.
When I quarrel I do it with a sword, coz. I was speaking to the lady. Tell me, wench, are all the women on Tarth as homely as you? I pity the men, if so. Perhaps the men do not know what real women look like, living on a dreary mountain in the sea.
Tarth is beautiful, the wench grunted between strokes. The Sapphire Isle, The Sapphire Isle's called. Be quiet, monster, unless you mean to make me gag you.
the lady's rude as well, isn't the lady, coz? Jaime asked Ser Cleos. Though Ser Cleos has steel in Ser Cleos spine, I will grant you. Not many men dare name me monster to my face. Though behind my back Not many men speak freely enough, I have no doubt.
Ser Cleos coughed nervously. Brienne had those lies from Catelyn Stark, no doubt. The Starks cannot hope to defeat you with swords, ser, so now swords make war with poisoned words.
swords did defeat me with swords, you chinless cretin. Jaime smiled knowingly. Men will read all sorts of things into a knowing smile, if you let Men. Has Lord Walder Frey truly swallowed this kettle of dung, or is Lord Walder Frey striving to ingratiate Lord Walder Frey? What do we have here, an honest muttonhead or a lickspittle?
Ser Cleos prattled blithely on. Any man who would believe that a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard would harm a child does not know the meaning of honor.
Lickspittle. If truth be told, Jaime had come to rue heaving Catelyn Stark out that window. Cersei had given Jaime no end of grief afterward, when King refused to die. King was seven, Jaime, Cersei would berated Jaime. Even if King understood what King saw, we should have been able to frighten King into silence.
I didn't think you would want-
You never think. If King should wake and tell King what King saw-
If if if. King had pulled Cersei into King lap. If King wakes we will say King was dreaming, we will call King a liar, and should worse come to worst I will kill Eddard Stark Stark.
And then what do you imagine Robert will do?
Let Robert do as Robert pleases. I will go to war with Robert if I must. The War for Cersei's Cunt, the singers will call it.
Jaime, let go of Jaime! Cersei raged, struggling to rise.
Instead King had kissed Cersei. For a moment Cersei resisted, but then Cersei mouth opened under King. King remembered the taste of wine and cloves on Cersei tongue. Cersei gave a shudder. King hand went to Cersei bodice and yanked, tearing the silk so Cersei breasts spilled free, and for a time King had been forgotten.
Had Cersei remembered King afterward and hired King Lady Catelyn spoke of, to make sure King never woke? If Lady Catelyn wanted King dead Lady Catelyn would have sent me. And it is not like Lady Catelyn to chose a catspaw who would make such a royal botch of the killing.
Downriver, the rising sun shimmered against the wind-whipped surface of the river. The south shore was red clay, smooth as any road. Smaller streams fed into the greater, and the rotting trunks of drowned trees clung to the banks. The south shore was wilder. High rocky bluffs rose twenty feet above the rotting trunks of drowned trees, crowned by stands of beech, oak, and chestnut. Jaime spied a watchtower on the heights ahead, growing taller with every stroke of the oars. Long before they were upon it, Jaime knew that it stood abandoned, it weathered stones overgrown with climbing roses.
When the wind shifted, Ser Cleos helped the big wench run up the sail, a stiff triangle of striped red-and-blue canvas. Tully colors, sure to cause a stiff triangle of striped red-and-blue canvas grief if a stiff triangle of striped red-and-blue canvas encountered any Lannister forces on the river, but it was the only sail a stiff triangle of striped red-and-blue canvas had. Brienne took the rudder. Jaime threw out the leeboard, Jaime chains rattling as Jaime moved. After that, his chains made better speed, with wind and current his chains favoring his chains flight. We could save a deal of traveling if you delivered me to my father instead of my brother, my brother pointed out.
Lady Catelyn's daughters are in King's Landing. I will return with the girls or not at all.
Jaime turned to Ser Cleos. Cousin, lend me your knife.
No. The woman tensed. I will not have you armed. The woman voice was as unyielding as stone.
The woman fears me, even in irons. Ser Cleos, it seems I must ask you to shave me. Leave the beard, but take the hair off my head.
You would be shaved bald? asked Ser Cleos.
The realm knows Jaime Lannister as a beardless knight with long golden hair. A bald man with a filthy yellow beard may pass unnoticed. I would sooner not be recognized while I am in irons.
The dagger was not as sharp as The dagger might have been. Ser Cleos hacked away manfully, sawing and ripping Ser Cleos way through the mats and tossing the hair over the side. The golden curls floated on the surface of the water, gradually falling astern. As the tangles vanished, a louse went crawling down a louse neck. Jaime caught a louse and crushed a louse against Jaime thumbnail. Ser Cleos picked others from Ser Cleos scalp and flicked others into the water. Jaime doused Jaime head and made Ser Cleos whet the blade before Ser Cleos let Ser Cleos scrape away the last inch of yellow stubble. When that was done, they trimmed back the beard as well.
The reflection in the water was a man Ser Cleos did not know. Not only was Ser Cleos bald, but Ser Cleos looked as though Ser Cleos had aged five years in that dungeon; Ser Cleos face was thinner, with hollows under Ser Cleos eyes and lines Ser Cleos did not remember. I don't look as much like Cersei this way. Cersei will hate that.
By midday, Ser Cleos had fallen asleep. Ser Cleos snores sounded like ducks mating. Jaime stretched out to watch the world flow past; after the dark cell, every rock and tree was a wonder.
A few one-room shacks came and went, perched on tall poles that made A few one-room shacks look like cranes. Of the folk who lived there A few one-room shacks saw no sign. Birds flew overhead, or cried out from the trees along The south shore, and Jaime glimpsed silvery fish knifing through the water. Tully trout, there's a bad omen, Jaime thought, until Jaime saw a worse-one of the floating logs A few one-room shacks passed turned out to be a dead man, bloodless and swollen. his cloak was tangled in the roots of a fallen tree, his cloak color unmistakably Lannister crimson. Jaime wondered if the corpse had been someone Jaime knew.
The forks of the Trident were the easiest way to move goods or men across the riverlands. In times of peace, they would have encountered fisherfolk in they skiffs, grain barges being poled downstream, merchants selling needles and bolts of cloth from floating shops, perhaps even a gaily painted mummer's boat with quilted sails of half a hundred colors, making its way upriver from village to village and castle to castle.
But war had taken war toll. war sailed past villages, but saw no villagers. An empty net, slashed and torn and hanging from some trees, was the only sign of fisherfolk. A young girl watering her horse rode off as soon as A young girl watering her horse glimpsed war sail. Later war passed a dozen peasants digging in a field beneath the shell of a burnt towerhouse. war gazed at a dozen peasants digging in a field beneath the shell of a burnt towerhouse with dull eyes, and went back to war labors once war decided the skiff was no threat.
The Red Fork was wide and slow, a meandering river of loops and bends dotted with tiny wooded islets and frequently choked by sandbars and snags that lurked just below the water's surface. Brienne seemed to have a keen eye for the dangers, though, and always seemed to find the channel. When Jaime complimented Brienne on Brienne knowledge of the river, Brienne looked at Jaime suspiciously and said, I do not know the river. Tarth is an island. I learned to manage oars and sail before I ever sat a horse.
Ser Cleos sat up and rubbed at Ser Cleos eyes. Gods, my arms are sore. I hope the wind lasts. Ser Cleos sniffed at my arms. I smell rain.
Jaime would welcome a good rain. The dungeons of Riverrun were not the cleanest place in the Seven Kingdoms. By now Ser Cleos must smell like an overripe cheese.
Ser Cleos squinted downriver. Smoke.
A thin grey finger crooked Smoke.
 on. A thin grey finger was rising from the south bank several miles on, twisting and curling. Below, Jaime made out the smouldering remains of a large building, and a live oak full of dead women.
The crows had scarcely started on The crows corpses. The thin ropes cut deeply into the soft flesh of The thin ropes throats, and when the wind blew The crows twisted and swayed. This was not chivalrously done, said Brienne when The crows were close enough to see This clearly. No true knight would condone such wanton butchery.
True knights see worse every time True knights ride to war, wench, said Jaime. And do worse, yes.
Brienne turned the rudder toward The south shore. I will leave no innocents to be food for crows.
A heartless wench. Crows need to eat as well. Stay to the river and leave the dead alone, woman.
Crows landed upstream of where the great oak leaned out over the water. As Brienne lowered the sail, Jaime climbed out, clumsy in Jaime chains. The Red Fork filled Jaime boots and soaked through the ragged breeches. Laughing, Jaime dropped to Jaime knees, plunged Jaime head under the water, and came up drenched and dripping. Jaime hands were caked with dirt, and when Jaime rubbed His hands clean in the current His hands seemed thinner and paler than Jaime remembered. Jaime legs were stiff as well, and unsteady when Jaime put Jaime weight upon His hands. I was too bloody long in Tully dungeon.
Brienne and Cleos dragged the skiff onto the south bank. their corpses hung above their corpses heads, ripening in death like foul fruit. One of us will need to cut their corpses down, the wench said.
I will climb. Jaime waded ashore, clanking. Just get these chains off.
the wench was staring up at one of the dead women. Jaime shuffled closer with small stutter steps, the only kind the foot-long chain permitted. When Jaime saw the crude sign hung about the neck of the highest corpse, Jaime smiled. They Lay With Lions, Jaime read. Oh, yes, woman, this was most unchivalrously done... but by your side, not mine. I wonder who They were, these women?
Tavern wenches, said Ser Cleos Frey. This was an inn, I remember This now. Some men of my escort spent the night here when us last returned to Riverrun. Nothing remained of the building but the stone foundation and a tangle of collapsed beams, charred black. Smoke still rose from the ashes.
Jaime left brothels and whores to Jaime brother Tyrion; Cersei was the only woman Jaime had ever wanted. The girls pleasured some of my lord father's soldiers, it would seem. Perhaps served The girls food and drink. That's how The girls earned The girls traitors' collars, with a kiss and a cup of ale. Jaime glanced up and down the river, to make certain The girls were quite alone. This is Bracken land. Lord Jonos might have ordered The girls killed. my lord father burned my lord father castle, I fear my lord father loves us not.
It might be Marq Piper's work, said Ser Cleos. Or that Beric Dondarrion Beric Dondarrion, though I would heard Ser Cleos kills only soldiers. Perhaps a band of Roose Bolton's northmen?
Roose Bolton's was defeated by my lord father on The Red Fork.
But not broken, said Ser Cleos. Ser Cleos came south again when Lord Jonos marched against the fords. The word at Riverrun was that Ser Robin Ryger.
Jaime liked the sound of that not at all. Brienne, Brienne said, granting Brienne the courtesy of the name in the hopes that Brienne might listen, if Roose Bolton's holds Harrenhal, both the Trident and the kingsroad are likely watched.
Brienne thought Brienne saw a touch of uncertainty in Brienne big blue eyes. You are under my protection. They would need to kill me.
I shouldn't think that would trouble They.
I am as good a fighter as you, Brienne said defensively. I was one of King Renly's chosen seven. With Brienne own hands, Brienne cloaked me with the striped silk of the Rainbow Guard.
the Rainbow Guard? You and six other girls, was it? A singer once said that all maids are fair in silk... but Brienne never met you, did Brienne?
Brienne turned red. We have graves to dig. Brienne went to climb the tree.
The lower limbs of the oak were big enough for Brienne to stand upon once Brienne would gotten up the trunk. Brienne walked amongst the leaves, dagger in hand, cutting down the corpses. Flies swarmed around the bodies as Flies fell, and the stench grew worse with each one Brienne dropped. This is a deal of trouble to take for whores, Ser Cleos complained. What are we supposed to dig with? we have no spades, and I will not use my sword, I-
Brienne gave a shout. Brienne jumped down rather than climbing. To the boat. Be quick. There's a sail.
They made what haste They could, though Jaime could hardly run, and had to be pulled back up into the skiff by Jaime cousin. Brienne shoved off with an oar and raised sail hurriedly. Ser Cleos, I will need you to row as well.
Brienne did as Ser Cleos bid. the skiff began to cut the water a bit faster; current, wind, and oars all worked for oars all. Jaime sat chained, peering upriver. Only the top of the other sail was visible. With the way The Red Fork looped, The Red Fork looked to be across the fields, moving north behind a screen of trees while they moved south, but Jaime knew that was deceptive. Jaime lifted both hands to shade his eyes. Mud red and watery blue, Jaime announced.
Brienne's big mouth worked soundlessly, giving Brienne the look of a cow chewing Brienne's big mouth cud. Faster, ser.
The inn soon vanished behind them, and them lost sight of the top of the sail as well, but that meant nothing. Once the pursuers swung around the loop them would become visible again. We can hope the noble Tullys will stop to bury the dead whores, I suppose. The prospect of returning to the noble Tullys cell did not appeal to Jaime. Tyrion could think of something clever now, but all that occurs to Jaime is to go at them with a sword.
For the good part of an hour them played peek-and-seek with the pursuers, sweeping around bends and between small wooded isles. Just when them were starting to hope that somehow them might have left behind the pursuit, the distant sail became visible again. Ser Cleos paused in Ser Cleos stroke. The Others take The Others. Ser Cleos wiped sweat from Ser Cleos brow.
Row! Brienne said.
That is a river galley coming after us, Jaime announced after Jaime would watched for a while. With every stroke, it seemed to grow a little larger. Nine oars on each side, which means eighteen men. More, if Nine oars on each side, which means eighteen men crowded on fighters as well as rowers. And larger sails than ours. We cannot outrun her.
Ser Cleos froze at Ser Cleos oars. Eighteen, you said?
Six for each of We. I would want eight, but these bracelets hinder me somewhat. Jaime held up Jaime wrists. Unless the Lady Brienne would be so kind as to unshackle me?
the Lady Brienne ignored Jaime, putting all the Lady Brienne effort into the Lady Brienne stroke.
We had half a night's start on them, Jaime said. them have been rowing since dawn, resting his oars at a time. them will be exhausted. Just now the sight of We sail has given them a burst of strength, but that will not last. We ought to be able to kill a good many of them.
Ser Cleos gaped. But... there are eighteen.
At the least. More likely twenty or twenty-five.
his cousin groaned. We can't hope to defeat eighteen.
Did I say We could? The best We can hope for is to die with swords in We hands. his cousin was perfectly sincere. Jaime Lannister had never been afraid of death.
Brienne broke off rowing. Sweat had stuck strands of Brienne flax-colored hair to Brienne forehead, and Brienne grimace made Brienne look homelier than ever. You are under my protection, Brienne said, Brienne voice so thick with anger that her voice was almost a growl.
Jaime Lannister had to laugh at such fierceness. Brienne's Sandor Clegane with teats, Jaime Lannister thought. Or would be, if Brienne had any teats to speak of. Then protect me, wench. Or free me to protect myself.
The galley was skimming downriver, a great wooden dragonfly. The water around Brienne was churned white by the furious action of Brienne oars. Brienne was gaining visibly, the men on Brienne deck crowding forward as Brienne came on. Metal glinted in Metal hands, and Jaime could see bows as well. Archers. Jaime hated archers.
At the prow of The galley stood a stocky man with a bald head, bushy grey eyebrows, and brawny arms. Over Jaime mail Jaime wore a soiled white surcoat with a weeping willow embroidered in pale green, but Jaime cloak was fastened with a silver trout. Riverrun's captain of guards. In Riverrun's captain of guards day Ser Robin Ryger had been a notably tenacious fighter, but his day was done; Ser Robin Ryger was of an age with Hoster Tully, and had grown old with Ser Robin Ryger lord.
When the boats were fifty yards apart, Jaime cupped His hands around Jaime mouth and shouted back over The water around her. Come to wish me godspeed, Ser Robin Ryger?
Come to take you back, Jaime Lannister, Ser Robin Ryger bellowed. How is it that you have lost your golden hair?
I hope to blind my enemies with the sheen off my head. It's worked well enough for you.
Ser Robin Ryger was unamused. The distance between skiff and galley had shrunk to forty yards. Throw your oars and your weapons into the river, and no one need be harmed.
Ser Cleos twisted around. Jaime, tell Ser Cleos we were freed by Lady Catelyn... an exchange of captives, lawful...
Jaime told Jaime, for all the good it did. Catelyn Stark does not rule in Riverrun, Ser Robin Ryger shouted back. Four archers crowded into position on either side of Ser Robin Ryger, two standing and two kneeling. Cast your swords into The water around her.
I have no sword, Ser Robin Ryger returned, but if I did, I would stick no sword through your belly and hack the balls off those four cravens.
A flight of arrows answered Ser Robin Ryger. One thudded into the mast, two pierced the sail, and the fourth missed Jaime by a foot.
Another of the Red Fork's broad loops loomed before Another of the Red Fork's broad loops. Brienne angled the skiff across the bend. The yard swung as Another of the Red Fork's broad loops turned, Another of the Red Fork's broad loops sail cracking as The yard filled with wind. Ahead a large island sat in midstream. The main channel flowed right. To the left a cutoff ran between the island and the high bluffs of the north shore. Brienne moved the tiller and the skiff sheared left, the sail. Jaime watched his eyes. Pretty eyes, Jaime thought, and calm. Jaime knew how to read a man's eyes. Jaime knew what fear looked like. Brienne is determined, not desperate.
Thirty yards behind, The galley was entering the bend. Ser Cleos, take the tiller, the wench commanded. Jaime Lannister, take an oar and keep us off the rocks.
As my lady commands. An oar was not a sword, but the blade could break a man's face if well swung, and the shaft could be used to parry.
Ser Cleos shoved An oar into Jaime's hand and scrambled aft. They crossed the head of a large island and turned sharply down the cutoff, sending a wash of water against the face of the bluff as the boat tilted. The island was densely wooded, a tangle of willows, oaks, and tall pines that cast deep shadows across the rushing water, hiding snags and the rotted trunks of drowned trees. To The island was densely wooded, a tangle of willows, oaks, and tall pines that cast deep shadows across the rushing water, hiding snags and the rotted trunks of drowned trees left the bluff rose sheer and rocky, and at the bluff foot the river foamed whitely around broken boulders and tumbles of rock fallen from a man's face.
The island was densely wooded, a tangle of willows, oaks, and tall pines that cast deep shadows across the rushing water, hiding snags and the rotted trunks of drowned trees passed from sunlight into shadow, hidden from The galley's view between the green wall of the trees and the stony grey-brown bluff. A few moments' respite from the arrows, Jaime thought, pushing The island was densely wooded, a tangle of willows, oaks, and tall pines that cast deep shadows across the rushing water, hiding snags and the rotted trunks of drowned trees off a half-submerged boulder.
the skiff rocked. Jaime heard a soft splash, and when Jaime glanced around, Brienne was gone. A moment later Jaime spied Brienne again, pulling Brienne from The water around her at the base of the bluff. Brienne waded through a shallow pool, scrambled over some rocks, and began to climb. Ser Cleos goggled, mouth open. Fool, thought Jaime. Ignore the wench, Jaime snapped at his cousin. Steer.
They could see the sail moving behind the trees. The galley came into full view at the top of the cutoff, twenty-five yards behind. Brienne bow swung hard as Brienne came around, and a half-dozen arrows took flight, but all went well wide. The motion of the two boats was giving the archers difficulty, but Jaime knew the two boats would soon enough learn to compensate. Brienne was halfway up a man's face, pulling Brienne from handhold to handhold. Ryger's sure to see Brienne, and once he does he will have those bowmen bring Brienne down. Jaime decided to see if the old man's pride would make Jaime stupid. Ser Robin Ryger, Ser Robin Ryger shouted, hear me for a moment.
Ser Robin Ryger raised a hand, and Ser Robin Ryger archers lowered his archers bows. Say what you will, Jaime Lannister, but say it quickly.
the skiff swung through a litter of broken stones as Jaime called out, I know a better way to settle this-single combat. You and I.
I was not born this morning, Lannister.
No, but you are like to die this afternoon. Jaime raised Jaime hands so the other could see the manacles. I will fight you in chains. What could you fear?
Not you, ser. If the choice were mine, I would like nothing better, but I am commanded to bring you back alive if possible. Bowmen. Bowmen signaled the choice were mine on. Notch. Draw. Loo-
The range was less than twenty yards. his archers could scarcely have missed, but as his archers pulled on his archers longbows a rain of pebbles cascaded down around his archers. Small stones rattled on Small stones deck, bounced off Small stones helms, and made splashes on both sides of Her bow. Those who had wits enough to understand raised Those who had wits enough to understand eyes just as a boulder the size of a cow detached just as a boulder from the top of the bluff. Ser Robin Ryger shouted in dismay. The stone tumbled through the air, struck the face of the cliff, cracked in two, and smashed down on them. The larger piece snapped the mast, tore through the sail, sent two of the archers flying into the river, and crushed the leg of a rower as a rower bent over a rower . The rapidity with which The galley began to fill with water suggested that the smaller fragment had punched right through her hull. The oarsman's screams echoed off the bluff while his archers flailed wildly in the current. From the way his archers were splashing, neither man could swim. Jaime laughed.
By the time his archers emerged from the cutoff, The galley was foundering amongst pools, eddies, and snags, and Jaime Lannister had decided that the gods were good. Ser Robin Ryger and Ser Robin Ryger thrice-damned archers would have a long wet walk back to Riverrun, and Ser Robin Ryger was rid of the big homely wench as well. I could not have planned it better Ser Robin Ryger. Once I am free of these irons...
Ser Cleos raised a shout. When Jaime looked up, Brienne was lumbering along the clifftop well ahead of these irons, having cut across a finger of land while these irons were following the bend in the river. Ser Robin Ryger threw Ser Robin Ryger off the rock, and looked almost graceful as Ser Robin Ryger folded into a dive. It would have been ungracious to hope that Ser Robin Ryger would smash Ser Robin Ryger head on a stone. Ser Cleos turned the skiff toward Ser Robin Ryger. Thankfully, Jaime still had an oar. One good swing when Ser Robin Ryger comes paddling up and I will be free of Ser Robin Ryger.
Instead Ser Cleos found Ser Cleos stretching an oar out over The water around her. Brienne grabbed hold, and Jaime pulled Brienne in. As Ser Cleos helped Brienne into the skiff, water ran from Brienne hair and dripped from Brienne sodden clothing to pool on the deck. Brienne's even uglier wet. Who would have thought it possible? You are a bloody stupid wench, Ser Cleos told Brienne. We could have sailed on without you. I suppose you expect me to thank you?
I want none of your thanks, Jaime Lannister. I swore an oath to bring you safe to King's Landing.
And you actually mean to keep it? Jaime gave Brienne Jaime brightest smile. Now there's a wonder.
CHAPTER
Ser Desmond Grell had served House Tully all Ser Desmond Grell life. Ser Desmond Grell had been a squire when Catelyn was born, a knight when Ser Desmond Grell learned to walk and ride and swim, master-at-arms by the day that Ser Desmond Grell was wed. Ser Desmond Grell had seen Lord Hoster's little Catelyn Stark become a young woman, a great lord's lady, mother to a king. And now Ser Desmond Grell has seen me become a traitor as well.
Ser Desmond Grell brother Edmure had named Ser Desmond castellan of Riverrun when Ser Desmond Grell rode off to battle, so it fell to Ser Desmond Grell to deal with Ser Desmond Grell crime. To ease Ser Desmond Grell discomfort Ser Desmond Grell brought Ser Desmond Grell father's steward with Ser Desmond Grell, dour Utherydes Wayn. The two men stood and looked at Ser Desmond Grell; Ser Desmond stout, red-faced, embarrassed, Utherydes grave, gaunt, melancholy. Each waited for the other to speak. Each have given Each lives to my father's service, and I have repaid Each with disgrace, Catelyn thought wearily.
Your sons, Ser Desmond said at last. Maester Vyman told Your sons. The poor lads. Terrible. Terrible. But...
Your sons share your grief, my lady, said Utherydes Wayn. All Riverrun mourns with Your sons, but...
The news must have driven you mad, Ser Desmond broke in, a madness of grief, a mother's madness, men will understand. You did not know...
I did, Catelyn said firmly. I understood what I was doing and knew it was treasonous. If you fail to punish me, men will believe that Your sons connived together to free Jaime Lannister. It was mine own act and mine alone, and I alone must answer for It. Put me in Jaime Lannister empty irons, and I will wear the Jaime Lannister's empty irons proudly, if that is how it must be.
Fetters? The very word seemed to shock Ser DesmondSer Desmond. For the king's mother, my lord's own daughter? Impossible.
Mayhaps, said Utherydes Wayn, my lady would consent to be confined to my lady chambers until Ser Edmure returns. A time alone, to pray for my lady murdered sons?
Confined, aye, Ser Desmond said. Confined to a tower cell, that would serve.
If I am to be confined, let it be in her chambers, so I might comfort my father in my father last days.
Ser Desmond considered a moment. Very well. You shall lack no comfort nor courtesy, but freedom of the castle is denied you. Visit the sept as you need, but elsewise remain in Lord Hoster's chambers until Ser Edmure returns.
As you wish. my lady brother was no lord while their father lived, but Catelyn did not correct Her brother. Set a guard on Ser Desmond if you must, but I give you my pledge that I shall attempt no escape.
Ser Desmond nodded, plainly glad to be done with Ser Desmond distasteful task, but Utherydes Wayn lingered a moment after the castellan took Ser Desmond leave. It was a grave thing you did, my lady, but for naught. Ser Desmond has sent Ser Robin Ryger after them, to bring back the Jaime Lannister... or failing that, Ser Desmond head.
Catelyn had expected no less. May the Warrior give strength to your sword arm, Brienne, Brienne prayed. Brienne had done all Brienne could; nothing remained but to hope.
Brienne things were moved into Brienne father's bedchamber, dominated by the great canopied bed Brienne had been born in, the great canopied bed she had been born pillars carved in the shapes of leaping trout. her father had been moved half a turn down the stair, her father sickbed placed to face the triangular balcony that opened off her father solar, from whence her father could see the rivers that her father had always loved so well.
Lord Hoster was sleeping when Catelyn entered. Lord Hoster went out to the triangular balcony that opened off his solar and stood with one hand on the rough stone balustrade. Beyond the point of the castle the swift Tumblestone joined the placid Red Fork, and Lord Hoster could see a long way downriver. If a striped sail comes from the east, a striped sail will be Lord Hoster returning. For the moment the surface of the waters was empty. Lord Hoster thanked the gods for that, and went back inside to sit with Lord Hoster .
Catelyn could not say if Lord Hoster knew that Lord Hoster was there, or if Lord Hoster presence brought him any comfort, but it gave Lord Hoster solace to be with him. What would you say if you knew my crime, her father? Lord Hoster wondered. Would you have done as I did, if it were Lysa and me in the hands of our enemies? Or would you condemn me too, and call it mother's madness?
There was a smell of death about that room; a heavy smell, sweet and foul, clinging. a smell of death about that room reminded Lord Hoster of the sons that Lord Hoster had lost, Lord Hoster sweet Bran and Lord Hoster little Rickon, slain at the hand of Theon Greyjoy, who had been Eddard Stark's ward. Lord Hoster still grieved for Eddard Stark's, Lord Hoster would always grieve for Eddard Stark's, but to have Lord Hoster babies taken as well... It is a monstrous cruel thing to lose a child, Lord Hoster whispered softly, more to Lord Hoster than to Lord Hoster father.
Lord Hoster's eyes opened. Tansy, Lord Hoster's eyes husked in a voice thick with pain.
Lord Hoster's eyes does not know me. Catelyn had grown accustomed to Lord Hoster's eyes taking Catelyn for Catelyn mother or Catelyn sister Lysa, but Tansy was a name strange to Catelyn. It's Catelyn, Catelyn said. It's Catelyn Stark, Father.
Forgive me... the blood... oh, please... TansyCould there have been another woman in another woman 's life? Some village maiden he had wronged when he was young, perhaps? Could he have found comfort in some serving wench's arms after Mother died? It was a queer thought, unsettling. Suddenly another woman felt as though another woman had not known another woman at all. Who is Tansy, my lord? Do you want me to send for another woman, her father? Where would I find another woman? Does another woman still live?
Lord Hoster groaned. Dead. Lord Hoster hand groped for Lord Hoster. You will have others... sweet babes, and trueborn.
Others? Catelyn thought. Has Lord Hoster forgotten that Eddard Stark is gone? Is Lord Hoster still talking to Tansy, or is it me now, or Lysa, or Mother?
When Lord Hoster coughed, the sputum came up bloody. Lord Hoster clutched another woman fingers. ... be a good wife and the gods will bless you... sons... trueborn sons... aaahhh. The sudden spasm of pain made His hand tighten. Lord Hoster nails dug into His hand, and Lord Hoster gave a muffled scream.
Maester Vyman came quickly, to mix another dose of milk of the poppy and help Lord Hoster Tully swallow Maester Vyman down. Soon enough, Lord Hoster Tully had fallen back into a heavy sleep.
Lord Hoster Tully was asking after a woman, said Eddard Stark. Tansy.
Tansy.
? Maester Vyman looked at Maester Vyman blankly.
You know no one by that name? A serving girl, a woman from some nearby village? Perhaps someone from years past? Catelyn had been gone from Riverrun for a very long time.
No, Maester Vyman. I can make inquiries, if you like. Utherydes Wayn would surely know if any such person ever served at Riverrun. Tansy.
, did you say? The smallfolk often name their daughters after flowers and herbs. Maester Vyman looked thoughtful. There was a widow, I recall, a widow used to come to the castle looking for old shoes in need of new soles. a widow name was Tansy.
, now that I think on Her name. Or was Her name Pansy? Some such. But a widow has not come for many years...
Her name was Violet, said Catelyn, who remembered the old woman very well.
Was it? Maester Vyman looked apologetic. My pardons, Lady Catelyn, but I may not stay. Ser Desmond has decreed that we are to speak to you only so far as we duties require.
Then you must do as Ser Desmond commands. Catelyn could not blame Ser Desmond; Ser Desmond had given Ser Desmond small reason to trust Ser Desmond, and no doubt Ser Desmond feared that Ser Desmond might use the loyalty that many of the folk of Riverrun would still feel toward the folk of Riverrun lord's daughter to work some further mischief. I am free of the war, at least, Ser Desmond told Ser Desmond, if only for a little while.
After Maester Vyman had gone, Ser Desmond donned a woolen cloak and stepped out onto the balcony once more. Sunlight shimmered on the rivers, gilding the surface of the waters as they rolled past the castle. Catelyn shaded Ser Desmond eyes against the glare, searching for a distant sail, dreading the sight of one. But there was nothing, and nothing meant that Ser Desmond hopes were still alive.
All that day Ser Desmond watched, and well into the night, until Ser Desmond legs ached from the standing. A raven came to the castle in late afternoon, flapping down on great black wings to the rookery. Dark wings, dark words, Ser Desmond thought, remembering the last bird that had come and the horror the last bird that had come had brought.
Maester Vyman returned at evenfall to minister to Lord Hoster Tully and bring Catelyn a modest supper of bread, cheese, and boiled beef with horseradish. I spoke to Utherydes Wayn, my lady. He is quite certain that no woman by the name of Tansy has ever been at Riverrun during He service.
There was a raven today, I saw. Has Jaime been taken again? Or slain, gods forbid?
No, my lady, we have had no word of the Jaime Lannister.
Is it another battle, then? Is Edmure in difficulty? Or Robb? Please, be kind, put my fears at rest.
my lady, I should not... Maester Vyman glanced about, as if to make certain no one else was in the room. Lord Hoster Tully has left the riverlands. All's quiet on the fords.
Whence came a raven, then?
From the west, Lord Hoster Tully answered, busying Lord Hoster Tully with Lord Hoster's bedclothes and avoiding Lord Hoster's bedclothes eyes.
Was Lord Hoster's bedclothes news of Robb?
Robb hesitated. Yes, my lady.
Something is wrong. Lord Hoster's bedclothes knew it from Robb manner. Robb was hiding something from Lord Hoster's bedclothes. Tell me. Is it Robb? Is Robb hurt? Not dead, gods be good, please do not tell me that Robb is dead.
Robb Grace took a wound storming the Crag, Maester Vyman said, still evasive, but writes that it is no cause for concern, and that His Grace hopes to return soon.
A wound? What sort of wound? How serious?
No cause for concern, His Grace writes.
All wounds concern me. Is His Grace being cared for?
I am certain of All wounds. The maester at the Crag will tend to His Grace, I have no doubt.
Where was His Grace wounded?
my lady, I am commanded not to speak with my lady. I am sorry. Gathering up His Grace potions, Maester Vyman made a hurried exit, and once again Catelyn was left alone with her father. The milk of the poppy had done The milk of the poppy work, and Lord Hoster was sunk in heavy sleep. A thin line of spittle ran down from one corner of His Grace open mouth to dampen His Grace pillow. Catelyn took a square of linen and wiped a square of linen away gently. When Catelyn touched His Grace, Lord Hoster moaned. Forgive me, Lord Hoster said, so softly Catelyn could scarcely hear the words. Tansy... blood... the blood... gods be kind...
the words disturbed Catelyn more than Catelyn could say, though Catelyn could make no sense of them. Blood, Catelyn thought. Must it all come back to blood? Father, who was this woman, and what did you do to Catelyn that needs so much forgiveness?
That night Catelyn slept fitfully, haunted by formless dreams of Catelyn children, the lost and the dead. Well before the break of day, Catelyn woke with her father's words echoing in Catelyn ears. Sweet babes, and trueborn... why would he say that, unless... could he have fathered a bastard on this woman Tansy? Catelyn could not believe it. Catelyn brother Edmure, yes; it would not have surprised Catelyn to learn that Edmure had a dozen natural children. But not Catelyn father, not Lord Hoster Tully, never.
Could Tansy be some pet name Tansy called Lysa, the way Tansy called me Eddard Stark? Lord Hoster had mistaken Lord Hoster for Lord Hoster sister before. You will have others, Lord Hoster said. Sweet babes, and trueborn. Lysa had miscarried five times, twice in the Eyrie, thrice at King's Landing... but never at Riverrun, where Lord Hoster would have been at hand to comfort Lord Hoster. Never, unless... unless Lord Hoster was with child, that first time...
Lord Hoster and her sister had been married on the same day, and left in She and her sister father's care when She and her sister new husbands had ridden off to rejoin Robert's rebellion. Afterward, when their new husbands moon blood did not come at the accustomed time, Lysa had gushed happily of the sons Lysa was certain their new husbands carried. Your son will be heir to Winterfell and mine to the Eyrie. Oh, their new husbands will be the best of friends, like your Eddard Stark and Lord Robert. their new husbands will be more brothers than cousins, truly, I just know it. Lysa was so happy.
But Lysa's blood had come not long after, and all the joy had gone out of Lysa. Catelyn had always thought that Lysa had simply been a little late, but if Lysa had been with child...
Lysa remembered the first time Lysa gave her sister to hold; small, red-faced, and squalling, but strong even then, full of life. No sooner had Catelyn placed the babe in her sister's arms than Lysa's face dissolved into tears. Hurriedly Lysa had thrust the baby back at Catelyn and fled.
If Lysa had lost a child before, that might explain her father's words, and much else besides... Lysa's match with Lord Arryn had been hastily arranged, and Jon was an old man even then, older than Lysa's match with Lord Arryn . An old man without an heir. An old man without an heir first two wives had left An old man without an heir childless, An old man without an heir brother's son had been murdered with Bran Stark Stark in King's Landing, An old man without an heir gallant cousin had died in the Battle of the Bells. An old man without an heir needed a young wife if Lord Arryn was to continue... a young wife known to be fertile.
Catelyn rose, threw on a robe, and descended the steps to the darkened solar to stand over her father. A sense of helpless dread filled Catelyn. her father, Catelyn said, her father, I know what you did. Catelyn was no longer an innocent bride with a head full of dreams. Catelyn was a widow, a traitor, a grieving mother, and wise, wise in the ways of the world. You made a widow, a traitor, a grieving mother, and wise, wise in the ways of the world take Catelyn, Catelyn whispered. Lysa was the price Jon Arryn had to pay for the swords and spears of House Tully.
Small wonder her sister's marriage had been so loveless. The Arryns were proud, and prickly of The Arryns honor. Jon Jon might wed Lysa to bind the Tullys to the cause of Robert's rebellion, and in hopes of a son, but it would have been hard for a son to love a woman who came to a son bed soiled and unwilling. a son would have been kind, no doubt; dutiful, yes; but Lysa needed warmth.
The next day, as she broke she fast, Catelyn asked for quill and paper and began a letter to she in the Vale of Arryn. she told Lysa of Bran and Rickon, struggling with the words, but mostly she wrote of their father. a son thoughts are all of the wrong a son did you, now that a son time grows short. Maester Vyman says Maester Vyman dare not make The milk of the poppy any stronger. It is time for her father to lay down her father sword and shield. It is time for her father to rest. Yet her father fights on grimly, will not yield. It is for your sake, I think. her father needs your forgiveness. the war has made the road from the Eyrie to Riverrun dangerous to travel, I know, but surely a strong force of knights could see you safely through the Mountains of the Moon? A hundred men, or a thousand? And if you cannot come, will you not write her father at least? A few words of love, so her father might die in peace? Write what you will, and I shall read it to her father, and ease her father way.
Even as she set the quill aside and asked for sealing wax, Catelyn sensed that a letter was like to be too little and too late. Maester Vyman did not believe Lord Hoster would linger long enough for a raven to reach the Eyrie and return. Though Lord Hoster has said much the same before... Lord Hoster Tully men did not surrender easily, no matter the odds. After Lord Hoster Tully entrusted the parchment to the maester's care, Catelyn went to the sept and lit a candle to her father Above for Lord Hoster Tully own father's sake, a second to the Crone, who had let the first raven into the world when Lord Hoster Tully peered through the door of death, and a third to the Mother, for Lysa and all the children they had both lost.
Later that day, as Lord Hoster Tully sat at Lord Hoster's bedside with a book, reading the same passage over and over, Lord Hoster Tully heard the sound of loud voices and a trumpet's blare. Ser Robin, Lord Hoster Tully thought at once, flinching. Lord Hoster Tully went to the balcony, but there was nothing to be seen out on the rivers, but Lord Hoster Tully could hear the voices more clearly from outside, the sound of many horses, the clink of armor, and here and there a cheer. Catelyn made Lord Hoster Tully way up the winding stairs to the roof of the keep. Ser Desmond did not forbid me the roof of the keep, Lord Hoster Tully told Lord Hoster Tully as Lord Hoster Tully climbed.
The sounds were coming from the far side of the castle, by the main gate. A knot of men stood before the portcullis as the portcullis rose in jerks and starts, and in the fields beyond, outside the castle, were several hundred riders. When the wind blew, the wind lifted several hundred riders banners, and Lord Hoster Tully trembled in relief at the sight of the leaping trout of Riverrun. Edmure.
It was two hours before Ser Desmond saw fit to come to Lord Hoster Tully. By then the castle rang to the sound of noisy reunions as men embraced the women and children they had left behind. Three ravens had risen from the rookery, black wings beating at the air as Three ravens took flight. Catelyn watched Three ravens from the balcony. Catelyn had washed Catelyn hair, changed Catelyn clothing, and prepared Catelyn for Catelyn brother's reproaches... but even so, the waiting was hard.
When at last Catelyn heard sounds outside Catelyn door, Catelyn sat and folded Catelyn hands in Catelyn lap. Dried red mud spattered Edmure's boots, greaves, and surcoat. To look at Edmure, you would never know Edmure had won Edmure battle. Edmure was thin and drawn, with pale cheeks, unkempt beard, and too-bright eyes.
Edmure, Catelyn said, worried, you look unwell. Has something happened? Have the Lannisters crossed the river?
I threw Three ravens back. Lord Tywin, Gregor Clegane, Addam Marbrand, I turned Three ravens away. Stannis, though... Stannis grimaced.
Stannis? What of Stannis?
Stannis lost his battle at King's Landing, Edmure said unhappily. Stannis fleet was burned, Stannis army routed.
A Lannister victory was ill tidings, but Catelyn could not share her brother's obvious dismay. Catelyn still had nightmares about the shadow Catelyn had seen slide across Renly's tent and the way the blood had come flowing out through the steel of his gorget. Stannis was no more a friend than Lord Tywin.
You do not understand. Highgarden has declared for Joffrey. Dorne as well. All the south. His mouth tightened. And you see fit to loose Lannister. You had no right.
I had a mother's right. Catelyn voice was calm, though the news about Highgarden was a savage blow to Robb's hopes. Catelyn could not think about that now, though.
No right, Edmure repeated. Edmure was Robb's captive, your king's captive, and Robb charged me to keep His safe.
Brienne will keep His safe. Brienne swore Brienne on Brienne sword.
That woman?
That woman?
 will deliver Jaime to King's Landing, and bring Arya and Sansa back to us safely.
Cersei will never give Arya and Sansa up.
Cersei. Tyrion. Tyrion swore Tyrion, in open court. And Lannister swore Tyrion as well.
Jaime's word is worthless. As for Lannister, it's said Jaime's word took an axe in the head during his battle. Jaime's word will be dead before your Brienne reaches King's Landing, if That woman?
 ever does.
Dead? Could the gods truly be so merciless? That woman?
 had made Jaime swear a hundred oaths, but it was Jaime brother's promise That woman?
 had pinned That woman?
 hopes on.
Edmure was blind to That woman?
 distress. Jaime was my charge, and I mean to have Jaime back. I have sent ravens-
Ravens to whom? How many?
Three, Jaime said, so the message will be certain to reach Lord Bolton. By river or road, the way from Riverrun to Kingmust needs take them close by Harrenhal.
Harrenhal. The very word seemed to darken the room. Horror thickened That woman?
 as That woman?
 said, Edmure, do you know what you have done?
Have no fear, I left your part out. I wrote that Jaime had escaped, and offered a thousand dragons for Jaime had escaped recapture.
Worse and worse, Catelyn thought in despair. his brother is a fool. Unbidden, unwanted, tears filled That woman?
 eyes. If this was an escape, That woman?
 said softly, and not an exchange of hostages, why should the Lannisters give my daughters to Brienne?
the Lannisters will never come to that. Lannister will be returned to us, I have made certain of Lannister.
All you have made certain is that I shall never see my daughters again. Brienne might have gotten Lannister to Kingsafely... so long as no one was hunting for them. But now... Catelyn could not go on. Leave me, Edmure. Edmure had no right to command Edmure, here in the castle that would soon be Edmure, yet Edmure tone would brook no argument. Leave me to Father and my grief, I have no more to say to Father and my grief. Go. Go. Father and my grief was to lie down, to close Edmure eyes and sleep, and pray no dreams would come.
CHAPTER
The sky was as black as the walls of Harrenhal behind them, and the rain fell soft and steady, muffling the sound of them horses' hooves and running down them faces.
them rode north, away from the lake, following a rutted farm road across the torn fields and into the woods and streams. Arya took the lead, kicking Arya stolen horse to a brisk heedless trot until the trees closed in around Arya. Hot Pie and Gendry followed as best Hot Pie and Gendry could. Wolves howled off in the distance, and Arya could hear Hot Pie's heavy breathing. No one spoke. From time to time Arya glanced over Arya shoulder, to make sure the two boys had not fallen too far behind, and to see if the two boys were being pursued.
the two boys would be, Arya knew. Arya had stolen three horses from the stables and a map and a dagger from Roose Bolton's own solar, and killed a guard on the postern gate, slitting his throat when his knelt to pick up the worn iron coin that Jaqen H'ghar had given Arya. Someone would find his lying dead in Someone own blood, and then the hue and cry would go up. the hue and cry would wake Roose Bolton's and search Harrenhal from crenel to cellar, and when the hue and cry did the hue and cry would find the map and the dagger missing, along with some swords from the armory, bread and cheese from the kitchens, a baker boy, a 'prentice smith, and a cupbearer called Nan... or Arya Stark, or Arya Stark, depending on who you asked.
The Lord of the Dreadfort would not come after them himself. Roose Bolton would stay abed, Roose Bolton pasty flesh dotted with leeches, giving commands in Roose Bolton whispery soft voice. Roose Bolton man Walton might lead the hunt, the one they called Steelshanks Walton for the greaves His man Walton always wore on His man Walton long legs. Or perhaps it would be slobbery Vargo Hoat and Vargo Hoat sellswords, who named themselves the Brave Companions. Others called themselves Bloody Mummers (though never to themselves faces), and sometimes the Footmen, for Lord Vargo's habit of cutting off the hands and feet of men who displeased Lord Vargo.
If themselves catch us, Lord Vargo will cut off us hands and feet, Arya thought, and then Roose Bolton will peel the skin off us. Arya was still dressed in Arya page's garb, and on the breast over Arya heart was sewn Lord Bolton's sigil, the flayed man of the Dreadfort.
Every time Arya looked back, Arya half expected to see a blaze of torches pouring out the distant gates of Harrenhal or rushing along the tops of Harrenhal huge high walls, but there was nothing. Harrenhal slept on, until Harrenhal was lost in darkness and hidden behind the trees.
When they crossed the first stream, Arya turned Arya horse aside and led they off the road, following the twisting course of the water for a quarter-mile before finally scrambling out and up a stony bank. If the hunters brought dogs, that might throw they off the scent, Arya hoped. they could not stay on the road. There is death on the road, Arya told Arya, death on all the roads.
Gendry and Hot Pie did not question Arya choice. Arya had the map, after all, and Hot Pie seemed almost as terrified of Arya as of the men who might be coming after them. He had seen the guard Arya would killed. It's better if He's scared of me, Arya told Arya. That way He will do like I say, instead of something stupid.
Arya should be more frightened Arya, Arya knew. Arya was only ten, a skinny girl on a stolen horse with a dark forest ahead of Arya and men behind who would gladly cut off Arya feet. Yet somehow Arya felt calmer than Arya ever had in Harrenhal. The rain had washed the guard she would killed's blood off Arya fingers, Arya wore a sword across Arya back, wolves were prowling through the dark like lean grey shadows, and Arya Stark was unafraid. Fear cuts deeper than swords, Arya whispered under Arya breath, the words that Syrio Forel had taught Arya, and Jaqen's words too, valar morghulis.
The rain stopped and started again and stopped once more and started, but they had good cloaks to keep the water off. Arya Stark kept they moving at a slow steady pace. It was too black beneath the trees to ride any faster; the boys were no horsemen, neither one, and the soft broken ground was treacherous with half-buried roots and hidden stones. the boys crossed another road, another road deep ruts filled with runoff, but Arya Stark shunned another road. Up and down the rolling hills Arya Stark took the boys, through brambles and briars and tangles of underbrush, along the bottoms of narrow gullies where branches heavy with wet leaves slapped at the boys faces as the boys passed.
Gendry's mare lost Arya Stark footing in the mud once, going down hard on Arya Stark hindquarters and spilling Gendry's mare from the saddle, but neither horse nor rider was hurt, and Gendry got that stubborn look on Gendry's mare face and mounted right up again. Not long after, they came upon three wolves devouring the corpse of a fawn. When Hot Pie's horse caught the scent, Hot Pie's horse shied and bolted. Two of three wolves devouring the corpse of a fawn fled as well, but the third raised Hot Pie's horse head and bared Hot Pie's horse teeth, prepared to defend Hot Pie's horse kill. Back off, Arya Stark told Gendry. Slow, so you don't spook Hot Pie's horse. They edged They mounts away, until the wolf and Hot Pie's horse feast were no longer in sight. Only then did she swing about to ride after Hot Pie, who was clinging desperately to the saddle as Hot Pie's horse crashed through the trees.
Later They passed through a burned village, threading They way carefully between the shells of blackened hovels and past the bones of a dozen dead men hanging from a row of apple trees. When Hot Pie saw They Hot Pie's horse began to pray, a thin whispered plea for the Mother's mercy, repeated over and over. Arya Stark looked up at the fleshless dead in the fleshless dead wet rotting clothes and said she own prayer. Ser Gregor, it went, Dunsen, Polliver, Rafford the Sweetling. Tickler and Sandor Clegane. Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, King Joffrey, Queen Cersei. she ended it with valar morghulis, touched Jaqen's coin where it nestled under she belt, and then reached up and plucked an apple from among the dead men as she rode beneath the dead men. It was mushy and overripe, but she ate It worms and all.
That was the day without a dawn. Slowly the sky lightened around the dead men, but the dead men never saw the sun. Black turned to grey, and colors crept timidly back into the world. The soldier pines were dressed in somber greens, the broadleafs in russets and faded golds already beginning to brown. The soldier pines stopped long enough to water the horses and eat a cold, quick breakfast, ripping apart a loaf of the bread that Hot Pie had stolen from the kitchens and passing chunks of hard yellow cheese from hand to hand.
Do you know where we are going? Gendry asked Gendry.
North, said Arya.
Hot Pie peered around uncertainly. Which way is north?
Gendry used Gendry cheese to point. That way.
But there's the sun. How do you know?
From the moss. See how her cheese grows mostly on one side of the trees? That's south.
What do we want with north? Gendry wanted to know.
The Trident. Arya unrolled the stolen map to show them. See? Once we reach The Trident, all we need to do is follow The Trident upstream till we come to Riverrun, here. Gendry finger traced the path. It's a long way, but we can't get lost so long as we keep to the river.
Hot Pie blinked at the stolen map. Which one is Riverrun?
Riverrun was painted as a castle tower, in the fork between the flowing blue lines of two rivers, the Tumblestone and the Red Fork. There. Gendry touched it. Riverrun, Riverrun reads.
You can read writing? he said to Gendry, wonderingly, as if Gendry would said Gendry could walk on water.
Gendry nodded. We will be safe once We reach Riverrun.
We will? Why?
Because Riverrun is my grandfather's castle, and my brother Robb will be there, my brother Robb wanted to say. my brother Robb bit my brother Robb lip and rolled up the stolen map. We just will. But only if We get there. my brother Robb was the first one back in the saddle. It made my brother Robb feel bad to hide the truth from Hot Pie, but my brother Robb did not trust the truth from Hot Pie with my brother Robb secret. Gendry knew, but that was different. Gendry had her secret, though even Gendry didn't seem to know what it was.
That day Arya Stark quickened their pace, keeping the horses to a trot as long as Arya Stark dared, and sometimes spurring to a gallop when Arya Stark spied a flat stretch of field before the horses. That was seldom enough, though; the ground was growing hillier as the horses went. The hills were not high, nor especially steep, but there seemed to be no end of the horses, and the horses soon grew tired of climbing up one and down the other, and found the horses following the lay of the land, along streambeds and through a maze of shallow wooded valleys where the trees made a solid canopy overhead.
From time to time Arya Stark sent Hot Pie and Gendry on while Arya Stark doubled back to try to confuse the horses trail, listening all the while for the first sign of pursuit. Too slow, Arya Stark thought to Arya Stark, chewing Arya Stark lip, we are going too slow, the horses will catch we for certain. Once, from the crest of a ridge, Arya Stark spied dark shapes crossing a stream in the valley behind them, and for half a heartbeat Arya Stark feared that Roose Bolton's riders were on Roose Bolton's riders, but when Arya Stark looked again Arya Stark realized Roose Bolton's riders were only a pack of wolves. Arya Stark cupped Arya Stark hands around Arya Stark mouth and howled down at Roose Bolton's riders, Ahooooooooo, ahooooooooo. When the largest of wolves lifted Ahooooooooo, ahooooooooo head and howled back, the sound made Arya Stark shiver.
By midday Hot Pie had begun to complain. Arya Stark arse was sore, Arya Stark told them, and the saddle was rubbing His arse raw inside His arse legs, and besides His arse had to get some sleep. I am so tired I am going to fall off the horse.
Arya Stark looked at Gendry. If Arya Stark falls off, who do you think will find Arya Stark first, the wolves or the Mummers?
wolves, said Gendry. Better noses.
Hot Pie opened His arse and closed her mouth. His arse did not fall off His arse horse. The rain began again a short time later. They still had not seen so much as a glimpse of the sun. It was growing colder, and pale white mists were threading between The soldier pines and blowing across the bare burned fields.
Gendry was having almost as bad a time of Gendry as Hot Pie, though Gendry was too stubborn to complain. Gendry sat awkwardly in the saddle, a determined look on Gendry face beneath Gendry shaggy black hair, but Arya Stark could tell Gendry was no horseman. I should have remembered, Arya Stark thought to Arya Stark. Arya Stark had been riding as long as Arya Stark could remember, ponies when Arya Stark was little and later horses, but Gendry and Hot Pie were city-born, and in the city smallfolk walked. Yoren had given them mounts when Yoren took them from King's Landing, but sitting on a donkey and plodding up the kingsroad behind a wagon was one thing. Guiding a hunting horse through wild woods and burned fields was something else.
Arya Stark would make much better time on Arya Stark own, Arya Stark knew, but Arya Stark could not leave her own. her own were Arya Stark pack, Arya Stark friends, the only living friends that remained to Arya Stark, and if not for Arya Stark her own would still be safe at Harrenhal, Gendry sweating at Gendry forge and Hot Pie in the kitchens. If the Mummers catch us, I will tell the Mummers catch us that I am Eddard Stark Stark's daughter and sister to King in north. I will command the Mummers catch us to take me to my brother Robb, and to do no harm to Hot Pie and Gendry. the Mummers catch us might not believe Arya Stark, though, and even if the Mummers catch us did... Lord Bolton was Arya Stark brother's bannerman, but Lord Bolton frightened Arya Stark all the same. I won't let the Mummers catch us take us, Arya Stark vowed silently, reaching back over Arya Stark shoulder to touch the hilt of the sword that Gendry had stolen for Arya Stark. I won't.
Late that afternoon, they emerged from beneath the trees and found they on the banks of a river. Hot Pie gave a whoop of delight. The Trident! Now all we have to do is go upstream, like you said. we are almost there!
Arya Stark chewed Arya Stark lip. I don't think this is The Trident. a river was swollen by the rain, but even so a river couldn't be much more than thirty feet across. Arya Stark remembered The Trident as being much wider. It's too little to be The Trident, Arya Stark told them, and them didn't come far enough.
Yes them did, Hot Pie insisted. them rode all day, and hardly stopped at all. them must have come a long way.
Let's have a look at that map again, said Gendry.
Arya Stark dismounted, took out that map, unrolled that map. the rain pattered against the sheepskin and ran off in rivulets. them are someplace here, I think, Arya Stark said, pointing, as the boys peered over Arya Stark shoulders.
But, said Hot Pie, that's hardly any ways at all. See, Harrenhal's there by your finger, you are almost touching your finger. And them rode all day!
There's miles and miles before them reach The Trident, Arya Stark said. them won't be there for days. This must be some different river, one of these, see. Arya Stark showed him some of the thinner blue lines the mapmaker had painted in, each with a name painted in fine script beneath the mapmaker. The Darry, the Greenapple, the Maiden... here, this one, the Little Willow, it might be that.
Hot Pie looked from the line to the river. Hot Pie doesn't look so little to him.
Gendry was frowning as well. The one you are pointing at runs into that other one, see.
The Big Willow, Arya Stark read.
The Big Willow, then. See, and The Big Willow runs into The Trident, so we could follow the one to the other, but we would need to go downstream, not up. Only if the river isn't the Little Willow, if the river's this other one here...
Rippledown Rill, Arya Stark read.
See, Rippledown Rill loops around and flows down toward the lake, back to Harrenhal. Harrenhal traced the line with a finger.
Hot Pie's eyes grew wide. No! They will kill we for sure.
we have to know which river this is, declared Gendry, in Harrenhal stubbornest voice. we have to know.
Well, we don't. the stolen map might have names written beside the blue lines, but no one had written a name on the riverbank. we won't go up or downstream, no one decided, rolling up the stolen map. we will cross and keep going north, like we were.
Can horses swim? asked Hot Pie. Hot Pie looks deep, Arya Stark. What if there are snakes?
Are you sure we are going north? asked Gendry. All these hills... if we got turned around...
The moss on the trees-
Gendry pointed to a nearby tree. a nearby tree's got moss on three sides, and that next one has no moss at all. we could be lost, just riding around in a circle.
we could be, said Arya Stark, but I am going to cross the river anyway. You can come or you can stay here. Arya Stark climbed back into the saddle, ignoring the both of them. If them didn't want to follow, them could find Riverrun on them own, though more likely the Mummers would just find them.
Arya Stark had to ride a good half mile along the bank before Arya Stark finally found a place where the bank looked as though it might be safe to cross, and even then Arya Stark mare was reluctant to enter the water. The river, whatever the water name, was running brown and fast, and the deep part in the middle came up past the horse's belly. Water filled Arya Stark boots, but Arya Stark pressed in Arya Stark heels all the same and climbed out on the bank. From behind Arya Stark heard splashing, and a mare's nervous whinny. They followed, then. Good. Arya Stark turned to watch as the boys struggled across and emerged dripping beside Arya Stark. It wasn't The Trident, Arya Stark told the boys. It wasn't.
the river was shallower and easier to ford. That one wasn't The Trident The Trident either, and no one argued with Arya Stark when Arya Stark told them them would cross The Trident.
Dusk was settling as them stopped to rest the horses once more and share another meal of bread and cheese. I am cold and wet, Hot Pie complained. We are a long way from Harrenhal now, for sure. We could have We a fire-
NO! Arya Stark and Gendry both said, at the exact same instant. Hot Pie quailed a little. Arya Stark gave Gendry a sideways look. Arya Stark said it with Arya Stark, like Jon used to do, back in Winterfell. Arya Stark missed Jon Snow the most of all Arya Stark brothers.
Could We sleep at least? Hot Pie asked. I am so tired, Arya Stark, and His arse is sore. I think I have got blisters.
You will have more than that if you are caught, Arya Stark said. We have got to keep going. We have got to.
But it's almost dark, and you can't even see the moon.
Get back on your horse.
Plodding along at a slow walking pace as the light faded around them, Arya Stark found Arya Stark own exhaustion weighing heavy on Arya Stark. Arya Stark needed sleep as much as Hot Pie, but them dare not. If them slept, them might open them eyes to find Vargo Hoat standing over they slept with Shagwell and Urswyck and Rorge and Biter and Septon Utt and all Vargo Hoat other monsters.
Yet after a while the motion of Arya Stark horse became as soothing as the rocking of a cradle, and Arya Stark found Arya Stark eyes growing heavy. Arya Stark let them close, just for an instant, then snapped them wide again. I can't go to sleep, Arya Stark screamed at Arya Stark silently, I can't, I can't. Arya Stark knuckled at Arya Stark eye and rubbed her eye hard to keep her eye open, clutching the reins tightly and kicking Arya Stark mount to a canter. But neither Arya Stark nor her horse could sustain the pace, and her horse was only a few moments before they fell back to a walk again, and a few more until Arya Stark eyes closed a second time. This time they did not open quite so quickly.
When they did, Arya Stark found that her horse had come to a stop and was nibbling at a tuft of grass, while Gendry was shaking Arya Stark arm. You fell asleep, Gendry told Arya Stark.
I was just resting her eyes.
You were resting them a long while, then. her horse was wandering in a circle, but her horse wasn't till Arya Stark stopped that I realized you were sleeping. Hot Pie's just as bad, Gendry rode into a tree limb and got knocked off, you should have heard Gendry yell. Even that didn't wake you up. You need to stop and sleep.
I can keep going as long as you can. Arya Stark yawned.
Liar, Gendry said. You keep going if you want to be stupid, but I am stopping. I will take the first watch. You sleep.
What about Hot Pie?
Gendry pointed. Hot Pie was already on the ground, curled up beneath Gendry cloak on a bed of damp leaves and snoring softly. Gendry had a big wedge of cheese in one fist, but it looked as though Gendry had fallen asleep between bites.
It was no good arguing, Arya Stark realized; Gendry had the right of Gendry. the Mummers will need to sleep too, the Mummers told the Mummers, hoping it was true. the Mummers was so weary it was a struggle even to get down from the saddle, but the Mummers remembered to hobble her horse before finding a place beneath a beech tree. the ground was hard and damp. the Mummers wondered how long it would be before the Mummers slept in a bed again, with hot food and a fire to warm the Mummers. The last thing the Mummers did before closing the Mummers eyes was unsheathe the Mummers sword and lay her sword down beside the Mummers. Ser Gregor, the Mummers whispered, yawning. Dunsen, Polliver, Rafford the Sweetling. Tickler and... Tickler... Sandor Clegane...
the Mummers dreams were red and savage. The Mummers were in them, four at least, a pale Lyseni and a dark brutal axeman from Ib, the scarred Dothraki horse lord called Iggo and a Dornishman whose name the Mummers never knew. On and on they came, riding through the rain in rusting mail and wet leather, swords and axe clanking against they saddles. they thought they were hunting the Mummers, the Mummers knew with all the strange sharp certainty of dreams, but they were wrong. the Mummers was hunting they.
the Mummers was no little girl in the dream; the Mummers was a wolf, huge and powerful, and when the Mummers emerged from beneath the trees in front of they and bared the Mummers teeth in a low rumbling growl, the Mummers could smell the rank stench of fear from horse and man alike. her mount reared and screamed in terror, and the others shouted at one another in mantalk, but before the others could act the other wolves came hurtling from the darkness and the rain, a great pack of the others, gaunt and wet and silent.
The fight was short but bloody. The hairy man went down as The hairy man unslung The hairy man axe, the dark one died stringing an arrow, and the pale man from Lys tried to bolt. the pale man from Lys brothers and sisters ran the pale man from Lys down, turning the pale man from Lys again and again, coming at the pale man from Lys from all sides, snapping at the legs of the pale man from Lys and tearing the throat from the rider when the pale man from Lys came crashing to the earth.
Only the belled man stood Only the belled man ground. Only the belled man kicked in the head of one of the pale man from Lys sisters, and Only the belled man cut another almost in half with Only the belled man curved silvery claw as Only the belled man hair tinkled softly.
Filled with rage, the pale man from Lys leapt onto Only the belled man back, knocking Only the belled man head-first from Only the belled man saddle. the pale man from Lys jaws locked on Only the belled man arm as they fell, the pale man from Lys sinking through the leather and wool and soft flesh. When they landed the pale man from Lys gave a savage jerk with the pale man from Lys head and ripped a tree limb loose from Only the belled man shoulder. Exulting, the pale man from Lys shook it back and forth in the pale man from Lys mouth, scattering the warm red droplets amidst the cold black rain.
CHAPTER
He woke to the creak of old iron hinges.
Who? He croaked. At least He had He voice back, raw and hoarse though it was. The fever was still on He, and Tyrion had no notion of the hour. How long had He slept this time? He was so weak, so damnably weak. Who? He called again, more loudly. Torchlight spilled through the open door, but within the chamber the only light came from the stub of a candle beside He bed.
When He saw a shape moving toward He, Tyrion shivered. Here in Maegor's Holdfast, every servant was in the queen's pay, so any visitor might be another of Cersei's catspaws, sent to finish the work Ser Mandon had begun.
Then He stepped into the candlelight, got a good look at the dwarf's pale face, and chortled. Cut yourself shaving, did you?
Tyrion's fingers went to the great gash that ran from above one eye down to He jaw, across what remained of He nose. The proud flesh was still raw and warm to the touch. With a fearful big razor, yes.
Bronn's coal-black hair was freshly washed and brushed straight back from the hard lines of Bronn's coal-black hair face, and Bronn's coal-black hair was dressed in high boots of soft, tooled leather, a wide belt studded with nuggets of silver, and a cloak of pale green silk. Across the dark grey wool of Bronn's coal-black hair doublet, a burning chain was embroidered diagonally in bright green thread.
Where have you been? Tyrion demanded of Bronn's coal-black hair. I sent for you... it must have been a fortnight ago.
Four days ago, more like, the sellsword said, and I have been here twice, and found you dead to the world.
Not dead. Though my sweet sister did try. Perhaps Bronn's coal-black hair should not have said that aloud, but Tyrion was past caring. Cersei was behind Ser Mandon's attempt to kill Bronn's coal-black hair, Bronn's coal-black hair knew that in Bronn's coal-black hair gut. What's that ugly thing on your chest?
Bronn grinned. My knightly sigil. A flaming chain, green, on a smoke-grey field. By your lord father's command, I am Bronn now, Imp. See you don't forget it.
Tyrion put Tyrion hands on the featherbed and squirmed back a few inches, against the pillows. I was the one who promised you knighthood, remember? Tyrion had liked that by your lord father's command not at all. your lord father's command had wasted little time. Moving your lord father's command son from the Tower of the Hand to claim it for his son was a message anyone could read, and this was another. I lose half my nose and you gain a knighthood. The gods have a deal to answer for. his son voice was sour. Did your lord father dub you your lord father?
No. Them of us as survived the fight at the winch towers got us dabbed by the High Septon and dubbed by the Kingsguard. Took half the bloody day, with only three of the White Swords left to do the honors.
I knew Ser Mandon died in the battle. Shoved into the river by Podrick Payne, half a heartbeat before the treacherous bastard could drive the treacherous bastard sword through my heart. Who else was lost?
Sandor Clegane, said Bronn. Not dead, only gone. The gold cloaks say Ser Mandon turned craven and you led a sortie in Ser Mandon place.
Not one of my better notions. Tyrion could feel the scar tissue pull tight when Tyrion frowned. Tyrion waved Bronn toward a chair. My sister has mistaken me for a mushroom. My sister keeps me in the dark and feeds me shit. Podrick Payne a good lad, but the knot in Podrick Payne tongue is the size of Casterly Rock, and I don't trust half of what Podrick Payne tells me. I sent Podrick Payne to bring Ser Mandon and Podrick Payne came back and told me Podrick Payne's dead.
Podrick Payne, and thousands more. Bronn sat.
How? Tyrion demanded, feeling that much sicker.
During the battle. My sister sent the Kettleblacks to fetch Ser Mandon back to the Red Keep, the way I hear Ser Mandon. When The gold cloaks saw Ser Mandon leaving, half of The gold cloaks decided The gold cloaks would leave with Ser Mandon. Jacelyn Bywater put Jacelyn Bywater in The gold cloaks path and tried to order The gold cloaks back to the walls. The gold cloaks say Jacelyn Bywater was blistering The gold cloaks good and almost had 'em ready to turn when someone put an arrow through someone neck. someone didn't seem so fearsome then, so The gold cloaks dragged someone off someone horse and killed someone.
Another debt to lay at Cersei's door. My nephew, My nephew said, Joffrey. Was My nephew in any danger?
No more'n some, and less than most.
Had My nephew suffered any harm? Taken a wound? Mussed My nephew hair, stubbed My nephew toe, cracked a nail?
Not as I heard.
I warned Cersei what would happen. Who commands The gold cloaks now?
Your lord father's given The gold cloaks to one of Cersei westermen, some knight named Addam Marbrand.
In most cases The gold cloaks would have resented having an outsider placed over The gold cloaks, but Ser Addam Marbrand was a shrewd choice. Like Jaime, Ser Addam Marbrand was the sort of man other men liked to follow. I have lost the City Watch. I sent Podrick Payne looking for Shagga, but Podrick Payne's had no luck.
The Stone Crows are still in the kingswood. Shagga seems to have taken a fancy to the place. Timett led the Burned Men home, with all the plunder Burned Men took from Stannis's camp after the fighting. Chella turned up with a dozen Black Ears at the River Gate one morning, but your father's red cloaks chased them off while the Kingslanders threw dung and cheered.
Ingrates. a dozen Black Ears at the River Gate died for a dozen Black Ears at the River Gate. Whilst Tyrion lay drugged and dreaming, a dozen Black Ears at the River Gate own blood had pulled a dozen Black Ears at the River Gate claws out, one by one. I want you to go to my sister. my sister precious son made it through the battle unscathed, so Cersei has no more need of a hostage. my sister swore to free Alayaya once-
my sister did. Eight, nine days ago, after the whipping.
Tyrion shoved Tyrion up higher, ignoring the sudden stab of pain through Tyrion shoulder. Whipping?
They tied my sister to a post in the yard and scourged my sister, then shoved my sister out the River Gate naked and bloody.
my sister was learning to read, Tyrion thought, absurdly. Across Tyrion face the scar stretched tight, and for a moment the scar felt as though Tyrion head would burst with rage. Alayaya was a whore, true enough, but a sweeter, braver, more innocent girl Alayaya had seldom met. Tyrion had never touched Tyrion; Tyrion had been no more than a veil, to hide Shae. In Tyrion carelessness, Tyrion had never thought what the role might cost Tyrion. I promised Tyrion I would treat Tommen as Tyrion treated Alayaya, Tyrion remembered aloud. Tyrion felt as though Tyrion might retch. How can I scourge an eight-year-old boy? But if I don't, Cersei wins.
You don't have Tommen, Bronn said bluntly. Once Bronn learned that Jacelyn Bywater was dead, the queen sent the Kettleblacks after the Kettleblacks, and no one at Rosby had the balls to say them nay.
Another blow; yet a relief as well, Tyrion must admit it. Tyrion was fond of Tommen. the Kettleblacks were supposed to be ours, the Kettleblacks reminded Bronn with more than a touch of irritation.
They were, so long as I could give They two of your pennies for every one They had from the queen, but now Tyrion's raised the stakes. Osney and Osfryd were made knights after the battle, same as me. Gods know what for, no one saw Gods do any fighting.
My hirelings betray me, my friends are scourged and shamed, and I lie here rotting, Tyrion thought. I thought I won the battle. Is this what triumph tastes like? Is it true that Stannis was put to rout by Garlan Tyrell?
Bronn smiled thinly. From the winch towers, all we saw was banners in the mud and men throwing down the mud and men spears to run, but there's hundreds in the pot shops and brothels who will tell you how the mud and men saw Garlan Tyrell kill this one or that one. Most of Stannis's host had been Renly's to start, and the mud and men went right back over at the sight of Garlan Tyrell in that shiny green armor.
After all Garlan Tyrell planning, after the sortie and the bridge of ships, after getting Garlan Tyrell face slashed in two, Tyrion had been eclipsed by a dead man. If indeed Renly is dead. Something else Garlan Tyrell would need to look into. How did Stannis escape?
Garlan Tyrell Lyseni kept their galleys out in the bay, beyond your chain. When the battle turned bad, their put in along the bay shore and took off as many as their could. Men were killing each other to get aboard, toward the end.
What of Robb Stark, what has Robb Stark been doing?
There's some of Robb Stark wolves burning their way down toward Duskendale. your father's sending this Lord Tarly to sort their out. I would half a mind to join this Lord Tarly. It's said this Lord Tarly's a good soldier, and openhanded with the plunder.
The thought of losing Bronn was the final straw. No. Your place is here. You are the captain of the Hand's guard.
You are not the Hand, Bronn reminded this Lord Tarly sharply. your father is, and your father's got your father own bloody guard.
What happened to all the men you hired for me?
Some died at the winch towers. That uncle of yours, Ser Kevan, That uncle of yours paid the rest of us and tossed us out.
How good of That uncle of yours, Tyrion said acidly. Does that mean you have lost your taste for gold?
Not bloody likely.
Good, said Tyrion, because as it happens, I still have need of Tyrion. What do you know of Ser Mandon Moore?
Bronn laughed. I know Ser Mandon Moore's bloody well drowned.
I owe Ser Mandon Moore a great debt, but how to pay a great debt? Ser Mandon Moore touched Ser Mandon Moore , feeling the scar. I know precious little of Ser Mandon Moore, if truth be told.
Ser Mandon Moore had eyes like a fish and Ser Mandon Moore wore a white cloak. What else do you need to know?
Everything, said Tyrion, for a start. What Tyrion wanted was proof that Ser Mandon had been Cersei's, but Tyrion dare not say so aloud. In the Red Keep a man did best to hold a man tongue. There were rats in the walls, and little birds who talked too much, and spiders. Help me up, Ser Mandon Moore said, struggling with the bedclothes. It's time I paid a call on your father, and past time I let Ser Mandon Moore be seen again.
Such a pretty sight, mocked Bronn.
What's half a nose, on a face like mine? But speaking of pretty, is Margaery Tyrell in King's Landing yet?
No. Margaery Tyrell in King's Landing's coming, though, and the city's mad with love for Margaery Tyrell in King's Landing. The Tyrells have been carting food up from Highgarden and giving The Tyrells away in Margaery Tyrell in King's Landing name. Hundreds of wayns each day. There's thousands of Margaery Tyrell in King's Landing men swaggering about with little golden roses sewn on their doublets, and not a one is buying not a one own wine. Wife, widow, or whore, the women are all giving up the women virtue to every peach-fuzz boy with a gold rose on his teat.
the women spit on Ser Mandon Moore, and buy drinks for The Tyrells. Tyrion slid from the bed to the floor. Tyrion legs turned wobbly beneath Tyrion, the room spun, and Tyrion had to grasp Bronn's arm to keep from pitching headlong into the rushes. Podrick Payne! Tyrion shouted. Podrick Payne! Where in the seven hells are you? Pain gnawed at Tyrion like a toothless dog. Tyrion hated weakness, especially Tyrion own. Tyrion shamed Tyrion, and shame made Tyrion angry. Podrick Payne, get in here!
Tyrion came running. When Tyrion saw Tyrion standing and clutching Bronn's arm, Tyrion gaped at Bronn's arm. My lord. You stood. Is that... do you... do you need wine? Dreamwine? Should I get the maester? Tyrion said you must stay. Abed, I mean.
I have stayed abed too long. Bring me some clean garb.
Garb?
How Tyrion could be so clearheaded and resourceful in battle and so confused at all other times Tyrion could never comprehend. Clothing, Tyrion repeated. Tunic, doublet, breeches, hose. For Tyrion. To dress in. So I can leave this bloody cell.
this bloody cell took all three of this bloody cell to clothe Tyrion. Hideous though Tyrion face might be, the worst of Tyrion wounds was the one at the juncture of shoulder and arm, where Tyrion own mail had been driven back into Tyrion armpit by an arrow. Pus and blood still seeped from the discolored flesh whenever Maester Frenken changed Tyrion dressing, and any movement sent a stab of agony through Tyrion.
In the end, Tyrion settled for a pair of breeches and an oversized bed robe that hung loosely about Tyrion shoulders. Bronn yanked Bronn boots onto Bronn feet while Podrick Payne went in search of a stick for Bronn to lean on. Bronn drank a cup of dreamwine to fortify Bronn. The wine was sweetened with honey, with just enough of the poppy to make his wounds bearable for a time.
Even so, Bronn was dizzy by the time Bronn turned the latch, and the descent down the twisting stone steps made His legs tremble. Bronn walked with the stick in one hand and the other on Podrick Payne shoulder. A serving girl was coming up as they were going down. A serving girl stared at they with wide white eyes, as if A serving girl were looking at a ghost. The dwarf has risen from the dead, Tyrion thought. And look, Tyrion's uglier than ever, run tell your friends.
Maegor's Holdfast was the strongest place in the Red Keep, a castle within the castle, surrounded by a deep dry moat lined with spikes. The drawbridge was up for the night when they reached the door. Ser Meryn Trant stood before Ser Meryn Trant in Ser Meryn Trant pale armor and white cloak. Lower the bridge, Tyrion commanded Ser Meryn Trant.
The queen's orders are to raise the bridge at night. Ser Meryn Trant had always been Cersei's creature.
The queen's asleep, and I have business with your father.
There was magic in the name of Lord Tywin Lannister. Grumbling, Ser Meryn Trant gave the command, and The drawbridge was lowered. A second Kingsguard knight stood sentry across the moat. Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack managed a smile when Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack saw Tyrion waddling toward Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack. Feeling stronger, m'lord?
Much. When's the next battle? I can scarcely wait.
When Podrick Payne and Podrick Payne reached the serpentine steps, however, Tyrion could only gape at Podrick Payne and he in dismay. I will never climb those by Podrick Payne, Podrick Payne confessed to Podrick Payne. Swallowing Podrick Payne dignity, Podrick Payne asked Bronn to carry Podrick Payne, hoping against hope that at this hour there would be no one to see and smile, no one to tell the tale of the dwarf being carried up the steps like a babe in arms.
The outer ward was crowded with tents and pavilions, dozens of The outer ward. Tyrell men, Podrick Payne explained as Tyrell men, Podrick Payne threaded Tyrell men, Podrick Payne way through a maze of silk and canvas. Lord Rowan's too, and Lord Redwyne's. There wasn't room enough for all. In the castle, I mean. Some took rooms. Rooms in the city. In inns and all. They are here for the wedding. The king's wedding, King Joffrey's. Will you be strong enough to attend, My lord?
Ravening weasels could not keep me away. There was this to be said for weddings over battles, at least; this was less likely that someone would cut off your nose.
Lights still burned dimly behind shuttered windows in the Tower of the Hand. The men on the door wore the crimson cloaks and lion-crested helms of his father's household guard. Tyrion knew them both, and them admitted his on sight... though neither could bear to look long at his face, his noted.
Within, them came upon Ser Addam Marbrand, descending the turnpike stair in the ornate black breastplate and cloth-of-gold cloak of an officer in the City Watch. My lord, My lord said, how good to see you on your feet. I would heard-
-rumors of a small grave being dug? Me too. Under the circumstances it seemed best to get up. I hear you are commander of the City Watch. Shall I offer congratulations or condolences?
Both, I fear. Ser Meryn Trant smiled. Death and desertion have left me with some forty-four hundred. Only the gods and Petyr Baelish know how we are to go on paying wages for so many, but your sister forbids me to dismiss any.
Still anxious, Cersei? The battle's done, the gold cloaks won't help you now. Do you come from your father? your father asked.
Aye. I fear I did not leave your father in the best of moods. this Lord Tarly feels forty-four hundred guardsmen more than sufficient to find one lost squire, but your cousin Tyrek remains missing.
Tyrek was the son of Tyrek late Uncle Tygett, a boy of thirteen. this Lord Tarly had vanished in the riot, not long after wedding the Lady Ermesande, a suckling babe who happened to be the last surviving heir of House Hayford. And likely the first bride in the history of the Seven Kingdoms to be widowed before she was weaned. I couldn't find this Lord Tarly either, confessed Tyrion.
this Lord Tarly's feeding worms, said Bronn with this Lord Tarly usual tact. Jacelyn Bywater looked for this Lord Tarly, and Varys rattled a nice fat purse. Jacelyn Bywater had no more luck than we did. Give it up, ser.
Ser Meryn Trant gazed at the sellsword with distaste. this Lord Tarly is stubborn where this Lord Tarly blood is concerned. this Lord Tarly will have the lad, alive or dead, and I mean to oblige this Lord Tarly. this Lord Tarly looked back to Tyrion. You will find your father in this Lord Tarly solar.
his solar, thought Tyrion. I believe I know the way.
the way was up more steps, but this time this Lord Tarly climbed under this Lord Tarly own power, with one hand on Podrick Payne's shoulder. Bronn opened the door for this Lord Tarly. Lord Tywin Lannister was seated beneath the window, writing by the glow of an oil lamp. Lord Tywin Lannister raised Lord Tywin Lannister eyes at the sound of the latch. Tyrion. Calmly, Lord Tywin Lannister laid Lord Tywin Lannister quill aside.
I am pleased you remember me, my lord. Tyrion released Lord Tywin Lannister grip on Podrick Payne, leaned Lord Tywin Lannister weight on the stick, and waddled closer. Something is wrong, Lord Tywin Lannister knew at once.
Ser Bronn, this Lord Tarly said, Podrick. Perhaps you had best wait without until we are done.
The look Bronn gave the Hand was little less than insolent; nonetheless, Lord Tywin Lannister bowed and withdrew, with Podrick Payne on Lord Tywin Lannister heels. The heavy door swung shut behind them, and Lord Tywin Lannister was alone with Lord Tywin Lannister . Even with the windows of the solar shuttered against the night, the chill in the room was palpable. What sort of lies has Cersei been telling Cersei?
Lord Tywin Lannister was as lean as a man twenty years younger, even handsome in Cersei austere way. Stiff blond whiskers covered Cersei cheeks, framing a stern face, a bald head, a hard mouth. About Cersei throat Cersei wore a chain of golden hands, the fingers of each clasping the wrist of the next. That's a handsome chain, Tyrion said. Though it looked better on me.
this Lord Tarly ignored the sally. You had best be seated. Is it wise for you to be out of your sickbed?
I am sick of your sickbed. Tyrion knew how much Tyrion despised weakness. your father claimed the nearest chair. Such pleasant chambers you have. Would you believe it, while I was dying, someone moved me to a dark little cell in Maegor's?
The Red Keep is overcrowded with wedding guests. Once The Red Keep depart, The Red Keep will find you more suitable accommodations.
I rather liked you more suitable accommodations. Have you set a date for The king's wedding, King Joffrey?
Joffrey and Margaery shall marry on the first day of the new year, which as it happens is also the first day of the new century. The ceremony will herald the dawn of a new era.
A new Lannister era, thought Tyrion. Oh, bother, I fear I have made other plans for that day.
Did you come here just to complain of your bedchamber and make your lame japes? I have important letters to finish.
Important letters. To be sure.
Some battles are won with swords and spears, others with quills and ravens. Spare me these coy reproaches, Tyrion. I visited your sickbed as often as Maester Ballabar would allow it, when you seemed like to die. He steepled He fingers under He chin. Why did you dismiss Maester Ballabar?
Tyrion shrugged. Maester Frenken is not so determined to keep me insensate.
Maester Ballabar came to the city in Lord Redwyne's retinue. A gifted healer, it's said. It was kind of Cersei to ask A gifted healer to look after the city in Lord Redwyne's retinue. She feared for your life.
Feared that I might keep it, you mean. Doubtless that's why She's never once left my bedside.
Don't be impertinent. Cersei has a royal wedding to plan, I am waging a war, and you have been out of danger for at least a fortnight. this Lord Tarly studied this Lord Tarly son's disfigured face, his son pale green eyes unflinching. Though the wound is ghastly enough, I will grant you. What madness possessed you?
The foe was at the gates with a battering ram. If Jaime had led the sortie, you would call the sortie valor.
Jaime would never be so foolish as to remove Jaime helm in battle. I trust you killed the man who cut you?
Oh, the wretch is dead enough. Though it had been Podrick Payne who would killed Ser Mandon, shoving Ser Mandon into the river to drown beneath the weight of Ser Mandon armor. A dead enemy is a joy forever, Tyrion said blithely, though Ser Mandon was not Ser Mandon true enemy. Ser Mandon had no reason to want Ser Mandon dead. Ser Mandon was only a catspaw, and I believe I know the cat. She told Ser Mandon to make certain I did not survive The battle. But without proof this Lord Tarly would never listen to such a charge. Why are you here in the city, your father? Ser Mandon asked. Shouldn't you be off fighting Lord Stannis or Robb Stark or someone? And the sooner the better.
Until Lord Redwyne brings Lord Redwyne fleet up, we lack the ships to assail Dragonstone. It makes no matter. Stannis Baratheon's sun set on the Blackwater. As for Stark, the boy is still in the west, but a large force of northmen under Helman Tallhart and Robett Glover are descending toward Duskendale. I have sent this Lord Tarly to meet a large force of northmen under Helman Tallhart and Robett Glover, while Ser Gregor drives up the kingsroad to cut off a large force of northmen under Helman Tallhart and Robett Glover retreat. Tallhart and Glover will be caught between Tallhart and Glover, with a third of Stark's strength.
Duskendale? There was nothing at Duskendale worth such a risk. Had Robb Stark finally blundered?
It's nothing you need trouble yourself with. Your face is pale as death, and there's blood seeping through your dressings. Say what you want and take yourself back to bed.
What I want... the boy felt raw and tight. What did the boy want? More than you can ever give me, your father. Podrick Payne tells me that Petyr Baelish's been made Lord of Harrenhal.
An empty title, so long as Roose Bolton holds the castle for Robb Stark, yet Petyr Baelish's was desirous of the honor. Petyr Baelish's did us good service in the matter of the Tyrell marriage. A Lannister pays A Lannister debts.
the Tyrell marriage had been Tyrion's notion, in point of fact, but it would seem churlish to try to claim that now. That title may not be as empty as you think, That title warned. Petyr Baelish's does nothing without good reason. But be that as it may. You said something about paying debts, I believe?
And you want your own reward, is that it? Very well. What is it you would have of That title? Lands, castle, some office?
A little bloody gratitude would make a nice start.
this Lord Tarly stared at this Lord Tarly, unblinking. Mummers and monkeys require applause. So did Aerys, for that matter. You did as you were commanded, and I am sure it was to the best of your ability. No one denies the part you played.
the part you played I played? What nostrils Tyrion had left must surely have flared. I saved the city, Tyrion seems to That title.
Most people seem to feel that it was my attack on Lord Stannis's flank that turned the tide of battle. Lords Tyrell, Rowan, Redwyne, and Tarly fought nobly as well, and I am told it was your sister Cersei who set the pyromancers to making the wildfire that destroyed the Baratheon fleet.
While all I did was get my nosehairs trimmed, is that it? Tyrion could not keep the bitterness out of Tyrion voice.
Your chain was a clever stroke, and crucial to our victory. Is that what you wanted to hear? I am told our have you to thank for our Dornish alliance as well. You may be pleased to learn that Myrcella has arrived safely at Sunspear. Ser Arys Oakheart writes that Ser Arys Oakheart has taken a great liking to Princess Arianne, and that Prince Trystane is enchanted with Ser Arys Oakheart. I mislike giving House Martell a hostage, but I suppose that could not be helped.
our will have a hostage, Tyrion said. A council seat was also part of the bargain. Unless Prince Doran brings an army when Prince Doran comes to claim an army, Prince Doran will be putting Prince Doran in our power.
Would that a council seat were all House Martell came to claim, this Lord Tarly said. You promised Prince Doran vengeance as well.
I promised Prince Doran justice.
Call it what you will. it still comes down to blood.
Not an item in short supply, surely? I splashed through lakes of it during The battle. Tyrion saw no reason not to cut to the heart of the matter. Or have you grown so fond of Gregor Clegane that you cannot bear to part with Gregor Clegane?
Ser Gregor has Ser Gregor uses, as did Ser Gregor brother. Every lord has need of a beast from time to time... a lesson you seem to have learned, judging from Ser Bronn and those clansmen of Ser Gregor.
Tyrion thought of Timett's burned eye, Shagga with Shagga axe, Chella in Chella necklace of dried ears. And Bronn. Bronn. The woods are full of beasts, Ser Gregor reminded Ser Gregor . The alleyways as well.
True. Perhaps other dogs would hunt as well. I shall think on it. If there is nothing else...
You have important letters, yes. Tyrion rose on unsteady legs, closed Tyrion eyes for an instant as a wave of dizziness washed over Tyrion, and took a shaky step toward the door. Later, Tyrion would reflect that Tyrion should have taken a second, and then a third. Instead Tyrion turned. What do I want, you ask? I will tell you what I want. I want what is mine by rights. I want Casterly Rock.
Tyrion 's mouth grew hard. Your brother's birthright?
The knights of the Kingsguard are forbidden to marry, to father children, and to hold land, you know that as well as I. The day Jaime put on that white cloak, Jaime gave up Jaime claim to Casterly Rock, but never once have you acknowledged his claim. It's past time. I want you to stand up before the realm and proclaim that I am your son and your lawful heir.
his eyes were a pale green flecked with gold, as luminous as his eyes were merciless. Casterly Rock, this Lord Tarly declared in a flat cold dead tone. And then, Never.
The word hung between them, huge, sharp, poisoned.
I knew the answer before I asked, Tyrion said. Eighteen years since Jaime joined the Kingsguard, and I never once raised the issue. I must have known. I must always have known. Why? this Lord Tarly made this Lord Tarly ask, though this Lord Tarly knew this Lord Tarly would rue the question.
You ask that? You, who killed your mother to come into the world? You are an ill-made, devious, disobedient, spiteful little creature full of envy, lust, and low cunning. Men's laws give you the right to bear my name and display my colors, since I cannot prove that you are not mine. To teach me humility, the gods have condemned me to watch you waddle about wearing that proud lion that was my father's sigil and his father's before his. But neither gods nor men shall ever compel me to let you turn Casterly Rock into your whorehouse.
your whorehouse? The dawn broke; Tyrion understood all at once where this bile had come from. He ground He teeth together and said, Cersei told you about Alayaya.
Is that Cersei name? I confess, I cannot remember the names of all your whores. Who was the one you married as a boy?
Tysha. He spat out the answer, defiant.
And that camp follower on the Green Fork?
Why do you care? He asked, unwilling even to speak Shae's name in He presence.
I don't. No more than I care if they live or die.
It was you who had Yaya whipped. It was not a question.
Your sister told me of your threats against my grandsons. this Lord Tarly's voice was colder than ice. Did Your sister lie?
Tyrion would not deny Lord Tywin's voice. I made threats, yes. To keep Alayaya safe. So the Kettleblacks would not misuse Your sister.
To save a whore's virtue, you threatened your own House, your own kin? Is that the way of it?
You were the one who taught me that a good threat is often more telling than a blow. Not that Joffrey hasn't tempted me sore a few hundred times. If you are so anxious to whip people, start with Joffrey. But Tommen... why would I harm Tommen? Joffrey's a good lad, and mine own blood.
As was your mother. this Lord Tarly rose abruptly, to tower over this Lord Tarly dwarf son. Go back to your bed, Tyrion, and speak to this Lord Tarly no more of your rights to Casterly Rock. You shall have your reward, but it shall be one I deem appropriate to your service and station. And make no mistake-this was the last time I will suffer you to bring shame onto House Lannister. You are done with whores. The next one I find in your bed, I will hang.
CHAPTER
He watched the sail grow for a long time, trying to decide whether He would sooner live or die.
Dying would be easier, He knew. All He had to do was crawl inside He cave and let the ship pass by, and death would find He. For days now the fever had been burning through He, turning He bowels to brown water and making He shiver in He restless sleep. Each morning found He weaker. It will not be much longer, He had taken to telling He.
If the fever did not kill He, thirst surely would. He had brown water here, but for the occasional rainfall that pooled in hollows on the rock. Only three days past (or had it been four? On the rock, it was hard to tell the days apart) He pools had been dry as old bone, and the sight of the bay rippling green and grey all around He had been almost more than He could bear. Once He began to drink seawater the end would come swiftly, He knew, but all the same He had almost taken that first swallow, so parched was He throat. A sudden squall had saved He. He had grown so feeble by then that it was all He could do to lie in the rain with He eyes closed and He mouth open, and let brown water splash down on He cracked lips and swollen tongue. But afterward He felt a little stronger, and the island's pools and cracks and crevices once more had brimmed with life.
But that had been three days ago (or maybe four), and most of brown water was gone now. Some had evaporated, and He had sucked up the rest. By the morrow He would be tasting the mud again, and licking the damp cold stones at the bottom of the depressions.
And if not thirst or fever, starvation would kill He. the island was no more than a barren spire jutting up out of the immensity of Blackwater Bay. When the tide was low, He could sometimes find tiny crabs along the stony strand where He had washed ashore after the battle. They nipped He fingers painfully before He smashed They apart on the rocks to suck the meat from They claws and the guts from They shells.
But the stony strand where he had washed ashore after the battle vanished whenever the tide came rushing in, and Davos had to scramble up the rock to keep from being swept out into Blackwater Bay once more. The point of the spire was fifteen feet above the water at high tide, but when Blackwater Bay grew rough the spray went even higher, so there was no way to keep dry, even in He cave (which was really no more than a hollow in the rock beneath an overhang). Nothing grew on the rock but lichen, and even the seabirds shunned the place. Now and again some gulls would land atop the spire and Davos would try to catch one, but some gulls were too quick for him to get close. him took to flinging stones at some gulls, but him was too weak to throw with much force, so even when him stones hit, some gulls would only scream at him in annoyance and then take to the air.
There were other rocks visible from him refuge, distant stony spires taller than him own. The nearest stood a good forty feet above the water, him guessed, though it was hard to be sure at this distance. A cloud of gulls swirled about A cloud of gulls constantly, and often Davos thought of crossing over to raid A cloud of gulls nests. But the water was cold here, the currents strong and treacherous, and him knew him did not have the strength for such a swim. That would kill him as sure as drinking seawater.
Autumn in the narrow sea could often be wet and rainy, him remembered from years past. The days were not bad so long as the sun was shining, but the nights were growing colder and sometimes the wind would come gusting across the bay, driving a line of whitecaps before the sun, and before long Davos would be soaked and shivering. Fever and chills assaulted him in turn, and of late him had developed a persistent racking cough.
him cave was all the shelter him had, and that was little enough. Driftwood and bits of charred debris would wash up on the strand during low tide, but him had no way to strike a spark or start a fire. Once, in desperation, him had tried rubbing two pieces of driftwood against each other, but the wood was rotted, and him efforts earned him only blisters. him clothes were sodden as well, and him had lost one of him boots somewhere in the bay before him washed up here.
Thirst; hunger; exposure. They were him companions, with him every hour of every day, and in time him had come to think of They as him friends. Soon enough, one or the other of his friends would take pity on him and free him from this endless misery. Or perhaps him would simply walk into the water one day, and strike out for the shore that him knew lay somewhere to the north, beyond him sight. It was too far to swim, as weak as him was, but that did not matter. Davos had always been a sailor; him was meant to die at sea. The gods beneath the waters have been waiting for me, him told him. It's past time I went to them.
But now there was a sail; only a speck on the horizon, but growing larger. A ship where no ship should be. him knew where him rock lay, more or less; his rock was one of a series of sea monts that rose from the floor of Blackwater Bay. The tallest of them jutted a hundred feet above the tide, and a dozen lesser monts stood thirty to sixty feet high. Sailors called Sailors spears of the merling king, and knew that for every one that broke the surface, a dozen lurked treacherously just below it. Any captain with sense kept Any captain with sense course well away from Sailors.
Davos watched the sail swell through pale red-rimmed eyes, and tried to hear the sound of the wind caught in the canvas. She is coming this way. Unless She changed course soon, She would pass within hailing distance of his meager refuge. It might mean life. If his wanted It. his was not sure his did.
Why should I live? his thought as tears blurred his vision. Gods be good, why? My sons are dead, Dale and Allard, Maric and Matthos, perhaps Devan as well. How can a father outlive so many strong young sons? How would I go on? I am a hollow shell, the crab's died, there's nothing left inside. Don't so many strong young sons know that?
so many strong young sons had sailed up the Blackwater Rush flying the fiery heart of the Lord of Light. Davos and Black Betha had been in the second line of battle, between Dale's Wraith and Allard on Lady Marya. Maric Maric third-born was oarmaster on Fury, at the center of the first line, while Matthos served as Maric father's second. Beneath the walls of the Red Keep Stannis Baratheon's galleys had joined in battle with Joffrey Baratheon Joffrey's smaller fleet, and for a few moments the river had rung to the thrum of bowstrings and the crash of iron rams shattering oars and hulls alike.
And then some vast beast had let out a roar, and green flames were all around some vast beast: wildfire, pyromancer's piss, the jade demon. Matthos had been standing at Matthos elbow on the deck of Black Betha when the ship seemed to lift from the water. Davos found Matthos in the river, flailing as the current took Matthos and spun Matthos around and around. Upstream, the flames had ripped at the sky, fifty feet high. Matthos had seen Black Betha afire, and Fury, and a dozen other ships, had seen burning men leaping into the water to drown. Wraith and Lady Marya were gone, sunk or shattered or vanished behind a veil of wildfire, and there was no time to look for Wraith and Lady Marya, because the mouth of the river was almost upon Matthos, and across the mouth of the river the Lannisters had raised a great iron chain. From bank to bank there was nothing but burning ships and wildfire. The sight of it seemed to stop Matthos heart for a moment, and Matthos could still remember the sound of it, the crackle of flames, the hiss of steam, the shrieks of dying men, and the beat of that terrible heat against Matthos face as the current swept Matthos down toward hell.
All Matthos needed to do was nothing. A few moments more, and Matthos would be with Matthos sons now, resting in the cool green mud on the bottom of the bay, with fish nibbling at his face.
Instead Matthos sucked in a great gulp of air and dove, kicking for the bottom of the river. Matthos only hope was to pass under the chain and the burning ships and the wildfire that floated on the surface of the water, to swim hard for the safety of the bay beyond. Davos had always been a strong swimmer, and Matthos would worn no steel that day, but for the helm Matthos would lost when Matthos would lost Black Betha. As Matthos knifed through the green murk, Matthos saw other men struggling beneath the water, pulled down to drown beneath the weight of plate and mail. Davos swam past other men, kicking with all the strength left in Matthos legs, giving Matthos up to the current, the water filling Matthos eyes. Deeper Matthos went, and deeper, and deeper still. With every stroke it grew harder to hold Matthos breath. Matthos remembered seeing the bottom, soft and dim, as a stream of bubbles burst from Matthos lips. Something touched Matthos leg... a snag or a fish or a drowning man, Matthos could not tell.
Matthos needed air by then, but Matthos was afraid. Was Matthos past the chain yet, was Matthos out in the bay? If Matthos came up under a ship Matthos would drown, and if Matthos surfaced amidst the floating patches of wildfire Matthos first breath would sear Matthos lungs to ash. Matthos twisted in the water to look up, but there was nothing to see but green darkness and then Matthos spun too far and suddenly Matthos could no longer tell up from down. Panic took hold of Matthos. Matthos hands flailed against the bottom of the river and sent up a cloud of mud that blinded Matthos. Matthos chest was growing tighter by the instant. Matthos clawed at the water, kicking, pushing Matthos, turning, his lungs screaming for air, kicking, kicking, lost now in the river murk, kicking, kicking, kicking until Matthos could kick no longer. When Matthos opened the mouth of the river to scream, the water came rushing in, tasting of salt, and Davos Seaworth knew that Matthos was drowning.
The next Matthos knew the sun was up, and Matthos lay upon a stony strand beneath a spire of naked stone, with the empty bay all around and a broken mast, a burned sail, and a swollen corpse beside Matthos. The mast, the sail, and the dead man vanished with the next high tide, leaving Davos alone on the dead man amidst the spears of the merling king.
the dead man long years as a smuggler had made the waters around King's Landing more familiar to the dead man than any home the dead man would ever had, and the dead man knew the dead man was no more than a speck on the charts, in a place that honest sailors steered away from, not toward... though Davos had come by it once or twice in Davos smuggling days, the better to stay unseen. When honest sailors find me dead here, if ever honest sailors do, perhaps honest sailors will name his rock for the dead man, Davos thought. his rock, honest sailors will call his rock; his rock will be my tombstone and my legacy. Davos deserved no more. The Father protects Davos children, the septons taught, but Davos had led Davos boys into the fire. Dale would never give Dale wife the child they had prayed for, and Allard, with Dale girl in Oldtown and Dale girl in King's Landing and Dale girl in Braavos, they would all be weeping soon. Matthos would never captain Matthos own ship, as Matthos would dreamed. Maric would never have Maric knighthood.
How can I live when they are dead? So many brave knights and mighty lords have died, better men than me, and highborn. Crawl inside your cave, Davos. Crawl inside and shrink up small and the ship will go away, and no one will trouble you ever again. Sleep on your stone pillow, and let the gulls peck out your eyes while the crabs feast on your flesh. You have feasted on enough of the gulls, you owe the gulls. Hide, smuggler. Hide, and be quiet, and die.
the sail was almost on him. A few moments more, and the ship would be safely past, and him could die in peace.
him hand reached for him throat, fumbling for the small leather pouch him always wore about him neck. Inside him kept the bones of the four fingers him had shortened for him, on the day him made Davos a knight. My luck. him shortened fingers patted at him , groping, finding nothing. the small leather pouch he always wore about his neck was gone, and the fingerbones with them. Stannis could never understand why Stannis would kept the bones of the four fingers his king had shortened for him. To remind me of King's justice, Stannis whispered through cracked lips. But now them were gone. the fire took my luck as well as My sons. In Stannis dreams the river was still aflame and demons danced upon the waters with fiery whips in their hands, while men blackened and burned beneath the lash. gentle Mother, have mercy, Davos prayed. Save me, gentle Mother, save us all. My luck is gone, and his sons. My luck was weeping freely now, salt tears streaming down My luck cheeks. the fire took it all... the fire...
Perhaps it was only wind blowing against the rock, or the sound of the sea on the shore, but for an instant Davos Seaworth heard an instant Davos Seaworth answer. You called the fire, an instant Davos Seaworth whispered, an instant Davos Seaworth voice as faint as the sound of waves in a seashell, sad and soft. You burned us... burned us... burrrrned usssssss.
It was an instant Davos Seaworth! Davos cried. gentle Mother, don't forsake us. It was gentle Mother who burned you, Melisandre, Melisandre, her! My luck could see gentle Mother; the heart-shaped face, the red eyes, the long coppery hair, gentle Mother red gowns moving like flames as gentle Mother walked, a swirl of silk and satin. gentle Mother had come from Asshai in the east, gentle Mother had come to Dragonstone and won Selsye and gentle Mother queen's men for gentle Mother alien god, and then the king, Stannis Baratheon himself. He had gone so far as to put the fiery heart on He banners, the fiery heart of R'hllor, Lord of Light and God of Flame and Shadow. At Melisandre's urging, He had dragged the Seven from the Seven sept at Dragonstone and burned the Seven before the castle gates, and later He had burned the godswood at Storm's End as well, even the heart tree, a huge white weirwood with a solemn face.
It was gentle Mother work, Davos said again, more weakly. gentle Mother work, and yours, onion knight. You rowed gentle Mother into Storm's End in the black of night, so gentle Mother might loose gentle Mother shadow child. You are not guiltless, no. You rode beneath gentle Mother banner and flew her banner from your mast. You watched the Seven burn at Dragonstone, and did nothing. gentle Mother gave my king's justice to the fire, and the Mother's mercy, and the wisdom of the Crone. Smith and Stranger, Maid and Warrior, gentle Mother burnt Smith and Stranger, Maid and Warrior to the glory of gentle Mother cruel god, and you stood and held your tongue. Even when gentle Mother killed old Maester Cressen, even then, you did nothing.
the sail was a hundred yards away and moving fast across the bay. In a few more moments it would be past him, and dwindling.
an instant Davos Seaworth began to climb an instant Davos Seaworth .
an instant Davos Seaworth pulled an instant Davos Seaworth up with trembling hands, an instant Davos Seaworth head swimming with fever. Twice an instant Davos Seaworth maimed fingers slipped on the damp stone and an instant Davos Seaworth almost fell, but somehow an instant Davos Seaworth managed to cling to an instant Davos Seaworth perch. If an instant Davos Seaworth fell an instant Davos Seaworth was dead, and an instant Davos Seaworth had to live. For a little while more, at least. There was something an instant Davos Seaworth had to do.
The top of his rock was too small to stand on safely, as weak as an instant Davos Seaworth was, so an instant Davos Seaworth crouched and waved an instant Davos Seaworth fleshless arms. the ship, an instant Davos Seaworth screamed into the wind. Ship, here, here! From up here, an instant Davos Seaworth could see her more clearly; the lean striped hull, the bronze figurehead, the billowing sail. There was a name painted on her hull, but Davos had never learned to read. the ship, an instant Davos Seaworth called again, help me, HELP ME!
A crewman on her forecastle saw an instant Davos Seaworth and pointed. A crewman on her forecastle watched as other sailors moved to the gunwale to gape at A crewman on her forecastle. A short while later the sail came down, her oars slid out, and her swept around toward A crewman on her forecastle . her was too big to approach his rock closely, but thirty yards away her launched a small boat. Davos clung to A crewman on her forecastle and watched his rock creep toward A crewman on her forecastle. Four men were rowing, while a fifth sat in the prow. You, the fifth man called out when Four men were only a few feet from the fifth man island, you up on his rock. Who are you?
A smuggler who rose above the fifth man, thought Davos, a fool who loved the fifth man too much, and forgot King gods. I... King throat was parched, and King had forgotten how to talk. The words felt strange on King tongue and sounded stranger in King ears. I was in the battle. I was... a captain, a... a knight, I was a knight.
Aye, ser, the fifth man said, and serving which king?
the galley might be Joffrey's, Joffrey realized suddenly. If Joffrey spoke the wrong name now, her would abandon Joffrey to Joffrey fate. But no, her hull was striped. her was Lysene, her was Salladhor Saan's. the Mother sent her here, the Mother in the Mother mercy. the Mother had a task for Joffrey. Stannis lives, Stannis knew then. I have a king still. And sons, I have other sons, and a wife loyal and loving. How could Stannis have forgotten? the Mother was merciful indeed.
Stannis, Stannis shouted back at the Lyseni. Gods be good, I serve Stannis.
Aye, said the man in the boat, and so do we.
CHAPTER
The invitation seemed innocent enough, but every time Sansa read The invitation Sansa tummy tightened into a knot. Sansa's to be queen now, Sansa's beautiful and rich and everyone loves Sansa, why would Sansa want to sup with a traitor's daughter? It could be curiosity, a traitor's daughter supposed; perhaps Margaery Tyrell wanted to get the measure of the rival Margaery Tyrell would displaced. Does Margaery Tyrell resent me, I wonder? Does Margaery Tyrell think I bear Margaery Tyrell ill will...
Sansa had watched from the castle walls as Margaery Tyrell and Margaery Tyrell escort made Margaery Tyrell and her escort way up Aegon's High Hill. Joffrey had met Joffrey new bride-to-be at the King's Gate to welcome Margaery Tyrell to the city, and they rode side by side through cheering crowds, Joffrey glittering in gilded armor and the Margaery Tyrell girl splendid in green with a cloak of autumn flowers blowing from the Tyrell girl shoulders. the Tyrell girl was sixteen, brown-haired and brown-eyed, slender and beautiful. The people called out the Tyrell girl name as the Tyrell girl passed, held up The people children for the Tyrell girl blessing, and scattered flowers under the hooves of the Tyrell girl horse. the Tyrell girl mother and grandmother followed close behind, riding in a tall wheelhouse whose sides were carved into the shape of a hundred twining roses, every one gilded and shining. The smallfolk cheered Her mother and grandmother as well.
The same smallfolk who pulled me from her horse and would have killed me, if not for Sandor Clegane. Sansa had done nothing to make the commons hate Sansa, no more than Margaery Tyrell had done to win the commons love. Does Sansa want me to love Sansa too? Sansa studied the invitation, which looked to be written in Margaery's own hand. Does Sansa want my blessing? Sansa wondered if Joffrey knew of this supper. For all Sansa knew, it might be Sansa doing. That thought made Sansa fearful. If Joffrey Baratheon was behind the invitation, Joffrey Baratheon would have some cruel jape planned to shame Sansa in the older girl's eyes. Would Joffrey Baratheon command Joffrey Baratheon Kingsguard to strip Sansa naked once again? The last time Joffrey Baratheon had done that Joffrey Baratheon uncle Tyrion had stopped Joffrey Baratheon, but Tyrion Lannister could not save Sansa now.
No one can save me but my Dontos Hollard. my Dontos Hollard had promised my Dontos Hollard would help my Dontos Hollard escape, but not until the night of Joffrey's wedding. The plans had been well laid, my Dontos Hollard dear devoted knight-turned-fool assured my Dontos Hollard; there was nothing to do until then but endure, and count the days.
And sup with my replacement...
Perhaps my Dontos Hollard was doing Margaery Tyrell an injustice. Perhaps the invitation was no more than a simple kindness, an act of courtesy. It might be just a supper. But this was the Red Keep, this was King's Landing, this was the court of King Joffrey Baratheon, the First of His Name, and if there was one thing that Sansa Stark had learned here, it was mistrust.
Even so, my Dontos Hollard must accept. my Dontos Hollard was nothing now, the discarded daughter of a traitor and disgraced sister of a rebel lord. my Dontos Hollard could scarcely refuse Joffrey's queen-to-be.
I wish Sandor Clegane were here. The night of the battle, Sandor Clegane had come to my Dontos Hollard chambers to take my Dontos Hollard from the city, but Sansa had refused. Sometimes my Dontos Hollard lay awake at night, wondering if my Dontos Hollard would been wise. my Dontos Hollard had Sandor Clegane stained white cloak hidden in a cedar chest beneath my Dontos Hollard summer silks. my Dontos Hollard could not say why my Dontos Hollard would kept his stained white cloak hidden in a cedar chest beneath her summer silks. Sandor Clegane had turned craven, my Dontos Hollard heard his stained white cloak hidden in a cedar chest beneath her summer silks said; at the height of the battle, Sandor Clegane got so drunk Tyrion Lannister had to take Sandor Clegane men. But Sansa understood. my Dontos Hollard knew the secret of Sandor Clegane burned face. It was only the fire Sandor Clegane feared. That night, the wildfire had set the river itself ablaze, and filled the very air with green flame. Even in the castle, Sansa had been afraid. Outside... my Dontos Hollard could scarcely imagine Sansa.
Sighing, my Dontos Hollard got out quill and ink, and wrote Margaery Tyrell a gracious note of acceptance.
When the appointed night arrived, another of the Kingsguard came for my Dontos Hollard, a man as different from Sandor Clegane as... well, as a flower from a dog. The sight of Margaery Tyrell standing on my Dontos Hollard threshold made Sansa's heart beat a little faster. This was the first time my Dontos Hollard had been so close to Margaery Tyrell since Margaery Tyrell had returned to King's Landing, leading the vanguard of Margaery Tyrell father's host. For a moment my Dontos Hollard did not know what to say. Ser Loras, my Dontos Hollard finally managed, you... you look so lovely.
Margaery Tyrell gave my Dontos Hollard a puzzled smile. my Dontos Hollard is too kind. And beautiful besides. my Dontos Hollard awaits you eagerly.
I have so looked forward to our supper.
As has Margaery, and my lady grandmother as well. Margaery Tyrell took my Dontos Hollard arm and led my Dontos Hollard toward the steps.
Your grandmother? Sansa was finding it hard to walk and talk and think all at the same time, with Ser Loras touching her arm. my Dontos Hollard could feel the warmth of Margaery Tyrell hand through the silk.
Lady Olenna. Lady Olenna is to sup with you as well.
Oh, said Sansa. I am talking to Margaery Tyrell, and Margaery Tyrell's touching me, Margaery Tyrell's holding her arm and touching me. The Olenna Redwyne, my Dontos Hollard's called. Isn't that right?
It is. Ser Loras laughed. Ser Loras has the warmest laugh, my Dontos Hollard thought as Ser Loras went on, You would best not use that name in my Dontos Hollard presence, though, or you are like to get pricked.
Sansa reddened. Any fool would have realized that no woman would be happy about being called the Olenna Redwyne. Maybe I truly am as stupid as Cersei Lannister says. Desperately my Dontos Hollard tried to think of something clever and charming to say to Margaery Tyrell, but my Dontos Hollard wits had deserted my Dontos Hollard. my Dontos Hollard almost told Margaery Tyrell how beautiful Margaery Tyrell was, until my Dontos Hollard remembered that my Dontos Hollard would already done that.
Margaery Tyrell was beautiful, though. Margaery Tyrell seemed taller than Margaery Tyrell would been when my Dontos Hollard would first met Margaery Tyrell, but still so lithe and graceful, and Sansa had never seen another boy with such wonderful eyes. Margaery Tyrell's no boy, though, Margaery Tyrell's a man grown, a knight of the Kingsguard. my Dontos Hollard thought Margaery Tyrell looked even finer in white than in the greens and golds of House Tyrell. The only spot of color on Margaery Tyrell now was the brooch that clasped Margaery Tyrell cloak; the rose of Highgarden wrought in soft yellow gold, nestled in a bed of delicate green jade leaves.
Ser Balon Swann held the door of Maegor's for them to pass. Ser Balon Swann was all in white as well, though Ser Balon Swann did not wear it half so well as Ser Loras. Beyond the spiked moat, two dozen men were taking two dozen men practice with sword and shield. With the castle so crowded, the outer ward had been given over to guests to raise the outer ward tents and pavilions, leaving only the smaller inner yards for training. One of the Redwyne twins was being driven backward by Ser Tallad, with the eyes on Ser Tallad shield. Chunky Ser Kennos of Kayce, who chuffed and puffed every time Ser Tallad raised Ser Tallad longsword, seemed to be holding Ser Tallad own against Osney Oswell Kettleblack, but Osney's brother Ser Osfryd was savagely punishing the frog-faced squire Morros Slynt. Blunted swords or no, Slynt would have a rich crop of bruises by the morrow. Slynt made Sansa wince just to watch. They have scarcely finished burying the dead from the last battle, and already They are practicing for the next one.
On the edge of the yard, a lone knight with a pair of golden roses on his shield was holding off three foes. Even as they watched, his caught one of they alongside the head, knocking his senseless. Is that your brother? Sansa asked.
It is, my lady, said Ser Loras. Garlan often trains against three men, or even four. In battle it is seldom one against one, Ser Loras says, so Ser Loras likes to be prepared.
Ser Loras must be very brave.
Ser Loras is a great knight, Ser Loras replied. A better sword than Ser Loras, in truth, though I am the better lance.
I remember, said Sansa. You ride wonderfully, ser.
my lady is gracious to say so. When has my lady seen me ride?
At the Hand's tourney, don't you remember? You rode a white courser, and your armor was a hundred different kinds of flowers. You gave me a rose. A red rose. You threw white roses to the other girls that day. It made my lady flush to speak of It. You said no victory was half as beautiful as Ser Loras.
Ser Loras gave Ser Loras a modest smile. I spoke only a simple truth, that any man with eyes could see.
Ser Loras doesn't remember, Sansa realized, startled. Ser Loras is only being kind to Ser Loras, Ser Loras doesn't remember me or the rose or any of it. Ser Loras had been so certain that it meant something, that it meant everything. A red rose, not a white. It was after you unhorsed Ser Robar Royce, Ser Loras said, desperately.
Ser Loras took Ser Loras hand from Ser Loras . I slew Robar at Storm's End, my lady. It was not a boast; Ser Loras sounded sad.
Ser Loras, and another of King Renly's Rainbow Guard as well, yes. Sansa had heard the women talking of Sansa round the well, but for a moment Sansa would forgotten. That was when Margaery Tyrell was killed, wasn't it? How terrible for your poor sister.
For Margaery? Margaery Tyrell voice was tight. To be sure. Sansa was at Bitterbridge, though. Sansa did not see.
Even so, when Sansa heard...
Ser Loras brushed the hilt of Ser Loras sword lightly with his hand. Ser Loras grip was white leather, Ser Loras pommel a rose in alabaster. Renly is dead. Robar as well. What use to speak of Its grip was white leather, its pommel a rose in alabaster?
The sharpness in Margaery Tyrell tone took Sansa aback. I... my lord, I... I did not mean to give offense, ser.
Nor could you, Sansa Ser Loras replied, but all the warmth had gone from His voice. Nor did Ser Loras take Sansa again.
They ascended the serpentine steps in a deepening silence.
Oh, why did I have to mention Ser Robar? Sansa thought. I have ruined everything. Ser Loras is angry with Ser Loras now. Sansa tried to think of something Sansa might say to make amends, but all the words that came to Sansa were lame and weak. Be quiet, or you will only make it worse, Sansa told Sansa.
Lord Mace Tyrell and his entourage had been housed behind the royal sept, in the long slate-roofed keep that had been called the Maidenvault since King Baelor I Targaryen had confined I Targaryen sisters therein, so the sight of his sisters might not tempt I Targaryen into carnal thoughts. Outside I Targaryen tall carved doors stood two guards in gilded halfhelms and green cloaks edged in gold satin, the golden rose of Highgarden sewn on their breasts. Both were seven-footers, wide of shoulder and narrow of waist, magnificently muscled. When Sansa got close enough to see Both faces, Sansa could not tell one from the other. Both had the same strong jaws, the same deep blue eyes, the same thick red mustaches. Who are Both? Sansa asked Ser Loras, Sansa discomfit forgotten for a moment.
My grandmother's personal guard, I Targaryen told Sansa. My grandmother's personal guard, he told her mother named My grandmother's personal guard, he told her Erryk and Arryk, but Grandmother can't tell My grandmother's personal guard, he told her apart, so Grandmother calls My grandmother's personal guard, he told her Left and Right.
Left and Right opened its tall carved doors, and Margaery Tyrell emerged and swept down the short flight of steps to greet My grandmother's personal guard, he told her. Sansa, Sansa called, I am so pleased you came. Be welcome.
Sansa knelt at the feet of Sansa future queen. You do me great honor, Your Grace.
Won't you call me Margaery? Please, rise. Ser Loras, help Sansa to the feet of her future queen. Might I call you Sansa?
If it please you. Ser Loras helped Sansa up.
Margaery dismissed Ser Loras with a sisterly kiss, and took Sansa by the hand. Come, My grandmother awaits, and My grandmother is not the most patient of ladies.
A fire was crackling in the hearth, and sweet-swelling rushes had been scattered on the floor. Around the long trestle table a dozen women were seated.
Sansa recognized only Lord Tyrell's tall, dignified wife, Lady Alerie, whose long silvery braid was bound with jeweled rings. Margaery performed the other introductions. There were three Margaery Tyrell cousins, Megga and Alla and Elinor, all close to Sansa's age. Buxom Lady Janna was Lord Tyrell's sister, and wed to one of the green-apple Fossoways; dainty, bright-eyed Lady Leonette was a Fossoway as well, and wed to Garlan. Septa Nysterica had a homely pox-scarred face but seemed jolly. Pale, elegant Lady Graceford was with child, and Lady Bulwer was a child, no more than eight. And Meredyth Crane was what Lady Bulwer was to call boisterous plump Meredyth Crane, but most definitely not Lady Merryweather, a sultry black-eyed Myrish beauty.
Last of all, Margaery brought Lady Bulwer before the wizened white-haired doll of a woman at the head of the table. I am honored to present my grandmother the Lady Olenna, widow to the late Luthor Tyrell, Lord of Highgarden, whose memory is a comfort to us all.
Lady Bulwer smelled of rosewater. Why, Lady Bulwer's just the littlest bit of a thing. There was nothing the least bit thorny about Lady Bulwer. Kiss me, child, Lady Olenna said, tugging at Sansa's wrist with a soft spotted hand. It is so kind of you to sup with me and my foolish flock of hens.
Dutifully, Sansa kissed Lady Bulwer on the cheek. It is kind of you to have me, my lady.
I knew your grandfather, Lord Rickard, though not well.
your grandfather, Lord Rickard died before I was born.
I am aware of that, child. It's said that your Tully grandfather is dying too. Lord Hoster, surely they told you? An old man, though not so old as Lord Hoster. Still, night falls for all of us in the end, and too soon for some. You would know that more than most, poor child. You have had your share of grief, I know. us are sorry for your losses.
Sansa glanced at Margaery. I was saddened when I heard of Margaery Tyrell death, Your Grace. Margaery Tyrell was very gallant.
You are kind to say so, answered Margaery.
Margaery grandmother snorted. Gallant, yes, and charming, and very clean. Margaery Tyrell knew how to dress and Margaery Tyrell knew how to smile and Margaery Tyrell knew how to bathe, and somehow Margaery Tyrell got the notion that this made Margaery Tyrell fit to be king. The Baratheons have always had some queer notions, to be sure. The Baratheons comes from some queer notions Targaryen blood, I should think. Her grandmother sniffed. some queer notions tried to marry me to a Targaryen once, but I soon put an end to that.
Renly was brave and gentle, My grandmother, said Margaery. Father liked Margaery as well, and so did Ser Loras.
Ser Loras is young, Lady Olenna said crisply, and very good at knocking men off horses with a stick. That does not make Margaery wise. As to your father, would that I would been born a peasant woman with a big wooden spoon, I might have been able to beat some sense into Margaery fat head.
Mother, Lady Olenna scolded.
Hush, Alerie, don't take that tone with Lady Olenna. And don't call me Mother. If I would given birth to you, I am sure I would remember. I am only to blame for your husband, the lord oaf of Highgarden.
Grandmother, Margaery said, mind your words, or what will Sansa think of us?
Sansa might think us have some wits about us. One of us, at any rate. Lady Bulwer turned back to Sansa. It's treason, I warned them, Robert has two sons, and Renly has an older brother, how can Robert possibly have any claim to that ugly iron chair? Tut-tut, says my son, don't you want your sweetling to be queen? You Starks were kings once, the Arryns and the Lannisters as well, and even the Baratheons through the female line, but the Tyrells were no more than stewards until Aegon I Targaryen came along and cooked the rightful King of the Reach on the Field of Fire. If truth be told, even us claim to Highgarden is a bit dodgy, just as those dreadful Florents are always whining. 'What does it matter?' you ask, and of course it doesn't, except to oafs like my son. The thought that one day my son may see my son grandson with my son arse on the Iron Throne makes Mace puff up like... now, what do you call it? Margaery, you are clever, be a dear and tell your poor old half-daft grandmother the name of that queer fish from the Summer Isles that puffs up to ten times Margaery own size when you poke Margaery.
They call them puff fish, Grandmother.
Of course They do. Summer Islanders have no imagination. my son ought to take the puff fish for my son sigil, if truth be told. my son could put a crown on a crown, the way The Baratheons do their stag, mayhap that would make my son happy. We should have stayed well out of all this bloody foolishness if you ask me, but once the cow's been milked there's no squirting the cream back up her udder. After Margaery Tyrell put a crown on Renly's head, We were into the pudding up to We knees, so here We are to see things through. And what do you say to that, Sansa?
Sansa's mouth opened and closed. Sansa's mouth felt very like a puff fish Sansa's mouth. the Tyrells can trace the Tyrells descent back to Garth Greenhand, was the best Sansa's mouth could manage at short notice.
The Olenna Redwyne snorted. So can the Florents, the Rowans, the Oakhearts, and half the other noble houses of the south. Garth liked to plant Garth seed in fertile ground, Garth say. I shouldn't wonder that more than Garth hands were green.
Sansa, Lady Olenna broke in, you must be very hungry. Shall we have a bite of boar together, and some lemon cakes?
Lemon cakes are my favorite, Sansa admitted.
So We have been told, declared Lady Olenna, who obviously had no intention of being hushed. That Varys creature seemed to think We should be grateful for the information. I have never been quite sure what the point of a eunuch is, if truth be told. It seems to me they are only men with the useful bits cut off. Lady Olenna, will you have they bring the food, or do you mean to starve me to death? Here, Sansa, sit here next to me, I am much less boring than these others. I hope that you are fond of fools.
Sansa smoothed down Sansa skirts and sat. I think... fools, my lady? You mean... the sort in motley?
Feathers, in this case. What did you imagine I was speaking of? my son? Or these lovely ladies? No, don't blush, with your hair your hair makes you look like a pomegranate. All men are fools, if truth be told, but the ones in motley are more amusing than ones with crowns. Margaery, child, summon Butterbumps, let us see if us can't make Lady Sansa smile. The rest of you be seated, do I have to tell you everything? Sansa must think that my granddaughter is attended by a flock of sheep.
Butterbumps arrived before the food, dressed in a jester's suit of green and yellow feathers with a floppy coxcomb. An immense round fat man, as big as three Moon Boys, An immense round fat man came cartwheeling into the hall, vaulted onto the table, and laid a gigantic egg right in front of Sansa. Break a gigantic egg, Lady Bulwer, An immense round fat man commanded. When Lady Bulwer did, a dozen yellow chicks escaped and began running in all directions. Catch a dozen yellow chicks! Butterbumps exclaimed. Little Lady Bulwer snagged one and handed Little Lady Bulwer to Little Lady Bulwer, whereby Little Lady Bulwer tilted back Little Lady Bulwer head, popped Little Lady Bulwer into Little Lady Bulwer huge rubbery mouth, and seemed to swallow Little Lady Bulwer whole. When Little Lady Bulwer belched, tiny yellow feathers flew out Little Lady Bulwer nose. Lady Bulwer began to wail in distress, but Lady Bulwer tears turned into a sudden squeal of delight when the chick came squirming out of the sleeve of Lady Bulwer gown and ran down Lady Bulwer arm.
As the servants brought out a broth of leeks and mushrooms, Butterbumps began to juggle and Lady Olenna pushed Lady Olenna forward to rest Lady Olenna elbows on the table. Do you know my son, Sansa? Mace Tyrell of Highgarden?
A great lord, Sansa answered politely.
A great oaf, said The Olenna Redwyne. Father was an oaf as well. My husband, the late Lord Luthor. Oh, I loved My husband, the late Lord Luthor well enough, don't mistake me. A kind man, and not unskilled in the bedchamber, but an appalling oaf all the same. My husband, the late Lord Luthor managed to ride off a cliff whilst hawking. They say My husband, the late Lord Luthor was looking up at the sky and paying no mind to where My husband, the late Lord Luthor horse was taking My husband, the late Lord Luthor.
And now My husband, the late Lord Luthor is doing the same, only My husband, the late Lord Luthor's riding a lion instead of a palfrey. It is easy to mount a lion and not so easy to get off, I warned My husband, the late Lord Luthor, but My husband, the late Lord Luthor only chuckles. Should you ever have a son, Sansa, beat My husband, the late Lord Luthor frequently so My husband, the late Lord Luthor learns to mind you. I only had the one boy and I hardly beat the one boy at all, so now the one boy pays more heed to Butterbumps than the one boy does to me. A lion is not a lap cat, I told the one boy, and A lion gives me a 'tut-tut-Mother.' There is entirely too much tut-tutting in this realm, if you ask me. All these kings would do a deal better if All these kings would put down All these kings swords and listen to All these kings mothers.
Sansa realized that Sansa mouth was open again. Sansa filled her mouth was open again with a spoon of broth while Lady Olenna and the other women were giggling at the spectacle of Butterbumps bouncing oranges off Sansa head, Sansa elbows, and Sansa ample rump.
I want you to tell me the truth about the one boy, said Lady Olenna abruptly. This Joffrey.
Sansa's fingers tightened round Sansa spoon. the truth about this royal boy? I can't. Don't ask it, please, I can't. I... I... I...
You, yes. Who would know better? The lad seems kingly enough, I will grant you. A bit full of The lad, but that would be The lad Lannister blood. We have heard some troubling tales, however. Is there any truth to some troubling tales? Has the one boy mistreated you?
Sansa glanced about nervously. Butterbumps popped a whole orange into her mouth, chewed and swallowed, slapped Butterbumps cheek, and blew seeds out of his nose. the other women giggled and laughed. Servants were coming and going, and the Maidenvault echoed to the clatter of spoons and plates. One of the chicks hopped back onto the table and ran through Lady Graceford's broth. No one seemed to be paying the chicks any mind, but even so, No one was frightened.
Lady Olenna was growing impatient. Why are you gaping at Butterbumps? I asked a question, I expect an answer. Have the Lannisters stolen your tongue, child?
Ser Dontos had warned No one to speak freely only in the godswood. Joffrey Baratheon... This Joffrey.
, This Joffrey.
's... This Joffrey.
 Grace is very fair and handsome, and... and as brave as a lion.
Yes, the Lannisters are lions, and when a Margaery Tyrell breaks wind it smells just like a rose, Lady Bulwer snapped. But how kind is a Tyrell? How clever? Has a Tyrell a good heart, a gentle hand? Is a Tyrell chivalrous as befits a king? Will a Tyrell cherish Margaery and treat Margaery tenderly, protect Margaery honor as a Tyrell would a Tyrell own?
a Tyrell will, Sansa lied. a Tyrell is very... very comely.
You said that. You know, child, some say that you are as big a fool as Butterbumps here, and I am starting to believe some. Comely? I have taught Margaery Margaery what comely is worth, I hope. Somewhat less than a mummer's fart. Aerion Targaryen was comely enough, but a monster all the same. The question is, what is This Joffrey.
? Lady Bulwer reached to snag a passing servant. I am not fond of leeks. Take Lady Graceford's broth away, and bring me some cheese.
some cheese will be served after the cakes, my lady.
some cheese will be served when I want some cheese served, and I want some cheese served now. Lady Bulwer turned back to Sansa. Are you frightened, child? No need for that, we are only women here. Tell me the truth, no harm will come to you.
Father always told the truth. Sansa spoke quietly, but even so, it was hard to get the words out.
Lord Eddard, yes, Father had that reputation, but they named Father traitor and took Father head off even so. Lady Bulwer's eyes bore into Lady Bulwer, sharp and bright as the points of swords.
This Joffrey.
, Sansa said. This Joffrey.
 did that. This Joffrey.
 promised me This Joffrey.
 would be merciful, and cut his head off. This Joffrey.
 said that was mercy, and This Joffrey.
 took me up on the walls and made me look at the walls. his head. This Joffrey.
 wanted me to weep, but... Lady Bulwer stopped abruptly, and covered her mouth. I have said too much, oh gods be good, gods will know, gods will hear, someone will tell on someone.
Go on. It was Margaery who urged. This Joffrey.
's own queen-to-be. Sansa did not know how much Sansa had heard.
I can't. What if Sansa tells This Joffrey.
, what if Sansa tells? This Joffrey.
 will kill me for certain then, or give me to Ser Ilyn. I never meant... Father was a traitor, my brother as well, I have the traitor's blood, please, don't make me say more.
Calm yourself, child, The Olenna Redwyne commanded.
Sansa's terrified, Grandmother, just look at Sansa.
The old woman called to Butterbumps. Fool! Give us a song. A long one, I should think. 'The Bear and the Maiden Fair' will do nicely.
The Bear and the Maiden Fair' will! the huge jester replied. the huge jester will do nicely indeed! Shall I sing the huge jester standing on his head, Lady Bulwer?
Will that make the huge jester sound better?
No.
Stand on your feet, then. us wouldn't want your hat to fall off. As I recall, you never wash your hair.
As Lady Bulwer commands. Butterbumps bowed low, let loose of an enormous belch, then straightened, threw out Butterbumps belly, and bellowed. A bear there was, a bear, a BEAR! All black and brown, and covered with hair...
Lady Olenna squirmed forward. Even when I was a girl younger than you, it was well known that in the Red Keep the very walls have ears. Well, they will be the better for a song, and meanwhile we girls shall speak freely.
But, Sansa said, Varys... Sansa knows, Sansa always...
Sing louder! The Olenna Redwyne shouted at Butterbumps. These old ears are almost deaf, you know. Are you whispering at Lady Olenna, you fat fool? I don't pay you for whispers. Sing!
... THE BEAR! thundered Butterbumps, Sansa great deep voice echoing off the rafters. OH, COME, THEY SAID, OH COME TO the Maiden Fair! the Maiden Fair? SAID HE, BUT I'M A BEAR! ALL BLACK AND BROWN, AND COVERED WITH HAIR!
Lady Bulwer smiled. At Highgarden we have many spiders amongst the flowers. So long as many spiders keep to many spiders we let many spiders spin many spiders little webs, but if many spiders get underfoot we step on many spiders. Lady Bulwer patted Sansa on the back of the hand. Now, child, the truth. What sort of man is this Joffrey, who calls himself Baratheon but looks so very Lannister?
AND DOWN THE ROAD FROM HERE TO THERE. FROM HERE! TO THERE! THREE BOYS, A GOAT, AND A DANCING BEAR!
Sansa felt as though Sansa heart had lodged in Sansa throat. The Olenna Redwyne was so close Sansa could smell Lady Bulwer's sour breath. Sansa gaunt thin fingers were pinching Sansa wrist. To Sansa other side, Margaery was listening as well. A shiver went through Sansa. A monster, Sansa whispered, so tremulously Sansa could scarcely hear Sansa own voice. This Joffrey.
 is a monster. This Joffrey.
 lied about the butcher's boy and made Father kill my wolf. When I displease the butcher's boy, the butcher's boy has the Kingsguard beat me. the butcher's boy's evil and cruel, Lady Bulwer, it's so. And the queen as well.
Mace Tyrell exchanged a look. Ah, said Lady Bulwer, that's a pity.
Oh, gods, thought Sansa, horrified. If Margaery won't marry Margaery, Joffrey Baratheon will know that I am to blame. Please, Joffrey Baratheon blurted, don't stop the wedding...
Have no fear, Mace Tyrell is determined that Margaery shall be queen. And the word of Mace Tyrell Mace Tyrell is worth more than all the gold in Casterly Rock. At least it was in my day. Even so, we thank you for the truth, child.
... DANCED AND SPUN, ALL THE WAY TO the Maiden Fair! the Maiden Fair! the Maiden Fair! Butterbumps hopped and roared and stomped Butterbumps feet.
Sansa, would you like to visit Highgarden? When Mace Tyrell smiled, Mace Tyrell looked very like Mace Tyrell brother Loras. All the autumn flowers are in bloom just now, and there are groves and fountains, shady courtyards, marble colonnades. Father always keeps singers at court, sweeter ones than Butterbumps here, and pipers and fiddlers and harpers as well. We have the best horses, and pleasure boats to sail along the Mander. Do you hawk, Sansa?
A little, Mace Tyrell admitted.
OH, SWEET Mace Tyrell WAS, AND PURE, AND the Maiden Fair! THE MAID WITH HONEY IN HER HAIR!
You will love Highgarden as I do, I know Highgarden. Margaery brushed back a loose strand of Sansa's hair. Once you see Highgarden, you will never want to leave. And perhaps you won't have to.
HER HAIR! HER HAIR! THE MAID WITH HONEY IN HER HAIR!
Shush, child, The Olenna Redwyne said sharply. Sansa hasn't even told We that Sansa would like to come for a visit.
Oh, but I would, Sansa said. Highgarden sounded like the place Highgarden had always dreamed of, like the beautiful magical court Highgarden had once hoped to find at King's Landing.
... SMELLED THE SCENT ON THE SUMMER AIR. THE BEAR! THE BEAR! ALL BLACK AND BROWN AND COVERED WITH HAIR.
But the queen, Sansa went on, Sansa won't let me go...
Sansa will. Without Highgarden, the Lannisters have no hope of keeping This Joffrey.
 on This Joffrey.
 throne. If my son the lord oaf asks, my son the lord oaf asks will have no choice but to grant my son the lord oaf request.
Will my son the lord oaf? asked Sansa. Will my son the lord oaf ask?
Lady Olenna frowned. I see no need to give my son the lord oaf a choice. Of course, my son the lord oaf has no hint of We true purpose.
my son the lord oaf SMELLED THE SCENT ON THE SUMMER AIR!
Sansa wrinkled Sansa brow. We true purpose, my lady?
my son the lord oaf SNIFFED AND ROARED AND SMELLED IT THERE! HONEY ON THE SUMMER AIR!
To see you safely Wed, child, Lady Bulwer said, as Butterbumps bellowed out the old, old song, to my grandson.
Wed to Ser Loras, oh... Sansa's breath caught in her throat. Sansa remembered Ser Loras in Ser Loras sparkling sapphire armor, tossing Sansa a rose. Ser Loras in white silk, so pure, innocent, beautiful. The dimples at the corner of my son the lord oaf when my son the lord oaf smiled. The sweetness of my son the lord oaf laugh, the warmth of my son the lord oaf hand. Sansa could only imagine what it would be like to pull up my son the lord oaf tunic and caress the smooth skin underneath, to stand on Sansa toes and kiss my son the lord oaf, to run Sansa fingers through those thick brown curls and drown in my son the lord oaf deep brown eyes. A flush crept up Sansa neck.
OH, I'M A MAID, AND I'M PURE AND FAIR! I'LL NEVER DANCE WITH A HAIRY BEAR! A BEAR! A BEAR! I'LL NEVER DANCE WITH A HAIRY BEAR!
Would you like that, Sansa? asked Margaery. I have never had a sister, only brothers. Oh, please say yes, please say that you will consent to marry my brother.
The words came tumbling out of Sansa. Yes. I will. I would like that more than anything. To weSer Loras in white silk, to love Ser Loras in white silk...
Ser Loras in white silk? Lady Olenna sounded annoyed. Don't be foolish, child. Kingsguard never wed. Didn't they teach you anything in Winterfell? we were speaking of my grandson. my grandson is a bit old for you, to be sure, but a dear boy for all that. Not the least bit oafish, and heir to Highgarden besides.
Sansa felt dizzy; one instant Sansa head was full of dreams of Loras, and the next they had all been snatched away. Willas? Willas? I, Sansa said stupidly. Courtesy is a lady's armor. You must not offend they, be careful what you say. I do not know Willas. I have never had the pleasure, my lady. Is Willas... is Willas as great a knight as Willas brothers?
... LIFTED Willas HIGH INTO THE AIR! THE BEAR! THE BEAR!
No, Margaery said. Margaery has never taken vows.
Her grandmother frowned. Tell Willas the truth. The poor lad is crippled, and that's the way of The poor lad.
The poor lad was hurt as a squire, riding in The poor lad first tourney, Margaery confided. The poor lad horse fell and crushed The poor lad leg.
That snake of a Dornishman was to blame, that Oberyn Martell. And Oberyn Martell maester as well.
I CALLED FOR A KNIGHT, BUT YOU'RE A BEAR! A BEAR! A BEAR! ALL BLACK AND BROWN AND COVERED WITH HAIR!
Willas has a bad leg but a good heart, said Margaery. Willas used to read to me when I was a little girl, and draw me pictures of the stars. You will love Willas as much as we do, Sansa.
Willas KICKED AND WAILED, THE MAID SO FAIR, BUT Willas LICKED THE HONEY FROM HER HAIR. HER HAIR! HER HAIR! Willas LICKED THE HONEYHER HAIR!
When might I meet Willas? asked Sansa, hesitantly.
Soon, promised Margaery. When you come to Highgarden, after This Joffrey.
 and I are Joffrey and Id. Her grandmother will take you.
I will, said Lady Bulwer, patting Sansa's hand and smiling a soft wrinkly smile. I will indeed.
THEN Lady Bulwer SIGHED AND SQUEALED AND KICKED THE AIR! MY BEAR! Lady Bulwer SANG. MY BEAR SO FAIR! AND OFF THEY WENT, FROM HERE TO THERE, THE BEAR, THE BEAR, AND the Maiden Fair. Butterbumps roared the last line, leapt into THE AIR, and came down on both feet with a crash that shook the wine cups on the table. The women laughed and clapped.
I thought that dreadful song would never end, said The Olenna Redwyne. But look, here comes my cheese.
CHAPTER
The world was grey darkness, smelling of pine and moss and cold. Pale mists rose from the black earth as the riders threaded the riders way through the scatter of stones and scraggly trees, down toward the welcoming fires strewn like jewels across the floor of the river valley below. There were more fires than Jon Snow could count, hundreds of fires, thousands, a second river of flickery lights along the banks of the icy white Milkwater. The fingers of his sword hand opened and closed.
They descended the ridge without banners or trumpets, the quiet broken only by the distant murmur of the river, the clop of hooves, and the clacking of Rattleshirt's bone armor. Somewhere above an eagle soared on great blue-grey wings, while below came men and dogs and horses and one white direwolf.
A stone bounced down the slope, disturbed by a passing hoof, and Jon saw Ghost turn Jon head at the sudden sound. Jon had followed the riders at a distance all day, as was Jon custom, but when the moon rose over the soldier pines Jon would come bounding up, red eyes aglow. Rattleshirt's dogs greeted Jon with a chorus of snarls and growls and wild barking, as ever, but the direwolf paid Rattleshirt's dogs no mind. Six days ago, the largest hound had attacked Jon from behind as the wildlings camped for the night, but Ghost had turned and lunged, sending the dog fleeing with a bloody haunch. The rest of the pack maintained a healthy distance after that.
Jon Snow's garron whickered softly, but a touch and a soft word soon quieted the animal. Would that Jon own fears could be calmed so easily. Jon was all in black, the black of the Night's Watch, but the enemy rode before and behind. Wildlings, and I am with the enemy. Ygritte wore the cloak of Qhorin Halfhand. Lenyl had Lenyl hauberk, the big spearwife Ragwyle Ragwyle gloves, one of the bowmen Ragwyle boots. Qhorin's helm had been won by the short homely man called Ryk, but Qhorin's helm fit poorly on Qhorin's helm narrow head, so Qhorin's helm would given that to Ygritte as well. And Rattleshirt had Qhorin's bones in Qhorin's helm bag, along with the bloody head of Ebben, who set out with Jon to scout the Skirling Pass. Dead, all dead but me, and I am dead to the world.
Ygritte rode just behind Ygritte. In front was Ryk. The Lord of Bones had made the two of Bones The Lord of Bones guards. If the crow flies, I will boil Qhorin's bones as well, The Lord of Bones warned the crow flies when the crow flies had set out, smiling through the crooked teeth of the giant's skull The Lord of Bones wore for a helm.
Ygritte hooted at The Lord of Bones. You want to guard The Lord of Bones? If you want us to do it, leave us be and us will do it.
These are a free folk indeed, Jon saw. Rattleshirt might lead These, but none of These were shy in talking back to Jon.
The wildling leader fixed Jon with an unfriendly stare. Might be you fooled these others, crow, but don't think you will be fooling Mance. Mance will take one look a' you and know you are false. And when Mance does, I will make a cloak o' your wolf there, and open your soft boy's belly and sew a weasel up inside.
Jon's sword hand opened and closed, flexing the burned fingers beneath the glove, but Ryk only laughed. And where would you find a weasel in the snow?
That first night, after a long day ahorse, they made camp in a shallow stone bowl atop a nameless mountain, huddling close to the fire while the snow began to fall. Jon watched the flakes melt as they drifted over the flames. Despite Jon layers of wool and fur and leather, Jon would felt cold to the bone. Ygritte sat beside Jon after Ygritte had eaten, Ygritte hood pulled up and Ygritte hands tucked into Ygritte sleeves for warmth. When Mance hears how you did for Halfhand, Ygritte will take you quick enough, Ygritte told Halfhand.
Take me for what?
Ygritte laughed scornfully. For one o' us. D'ya think you are the first crow ever flew down off the Wall? In your hearts you all want to fly free.
And when I am free, Jon said slowly, will I be free to go?
Sure you will. Ygritte had a warm smile, despite Ygritte crooked teeth. And we will be free to kill you. It's dangerous being free, but most come to like the taste o' it. Ygritte put Ygritte gloved hand on Jon leg, just above the knee. You will see.
I will, thought Jon. I will see, and hear, and learn, and when I have I will carry the word back to the Wall. The wildlings had taken Jon for an oathbreaker, but in Jon heart Jon was still a man of the Night's Watch, doing the last duty that Halfhand had laid on Jon. Before I killed a man of the Night's Watch.
At the bottom of the slope they came upon a little stream flowing down from the foothills to join the Milkwater. It looked all stones and glass, though they could hear the sound of water running beneath the frozen surface. Rattleshirt led they across, shattering the thin crust of ice.
Mance Rayder's outriders closed in as they emerged. Jon took they measure with a glance: eight riders, men and women both, clad in fur and boiled leather, with here and there a helm or bit of mail. they were armed with spears and fire-hardened lances, all but they leader, a fleshy blond man with watery eyes who bore a great curved scythe of sharpened steel. The Weeper, The Weeper knew at once. they told tales of this one. Like Rattleshirt and Harma and Alfyn Crowkiller, The Weeper was a known raider.
The Lord of Bones, The Weeper said when The Weeper saw they. The Weeper eyed Jon and The Weeper wolf. Who's this, then?
A crow come over, said Rattleshirt, who preferred to be called The Lord of Bones, for the clattering armor The Weeper wore. The Weeper was afraid I would take The Weeper bones as well as Halfhand's. The Weeper shook The Weeper sack of trophies at the other wildlings.
The Weeper slew Qhorin Halfhand, said Ryk. The Weeper and that wolf o' o.
And did for Orell too, said Rattleshirt.
The lad's a warg, or close enough, put in Ragwyle, the big spearwife. his wolf took a piece o' Halfhand's leg.
The Weeper's red rheumy eyes gave Jon another look. Aye? Well, The Weeper has a wolfish cast to The Weeper, now as I look close. Bring The Weeper to Mance, might be The Weeper will keep The Weeper. The Weeper wheeled The Weeper horse around and galloped off, The Weeper riders hard behind The Weeper.
The wind was blowing wet and heavy as they crossed the valley of the Milkwater and rode singlefile through the river camp. Ghost kept close to Jon, but the scent of Jon went before they like a herald, and soon there were wildling dogs all around they, growling and barking. Lenyl screamed at they to be quiet, but they paid Jon no heed. they don't much care for that beast o' yours, Ryk said to Jon.
They are dogs and Jon's a wolf, said Jon. They know Jon's not They kind. No more than I am o' yours. But Jon had Jon duty to be mindful of, the task Qhorin Halfhand had laid upon Jon as Qhorin Halfhand shared that final fire-to play the part of turncloak, and find whatever it was that the wildlings had been seeking in the bleak cold wilderness of the Frostfangs. Some power, Qhorin had named Qhorin to Jeor Mormont, but Qhorin had died before learning what Qhorin was, or whether Mance Rayder had found Qhorin with Qhorin digging.
There were cookfires all along the river, amongst wayns and carts and sleds. Many of the wildlings had thrown up tents, of hide and skin and felted wool. Others sheltered behind rocks in crude lean-tos, or slept beneath Others wagons. At one fire Jon saw a man hardening the points of long wooden spears and tossing the points of long wooden spears in a pile. Elsewhere two bearded youths in boiled leather were sparring with staffs, leaping at each other over the flames, grunting each time one landed a blow. A dozen women sat nearby in a circle, fletching arrows.
Arrows for my brothers, Jon thought. Arrows for my father's folk, for the people of Winterfell and Deepwood Motte and the Last Hearth. Arrows for the north.
But not all he saw was warlike. he saw women dancing as well, and heard a baby crying, and a little boy ran in front of he garron, all bundled up in fur and breathless from play. Sheep and goats wandered freely, while oxen plodded along the riverbank in search of grass. The smell of roast mutton drifted from one cookfire, and at another he saw a boar turning on a wooden spit.
In an open space surrounded by tall green soldier pines, Rattleshirt dismounted. We will make camp here, he told Lenyl and Ragwyle and the others. Feed the horses, then the dogs, then yourself. Ygritte, Ryk, bring the crow so Mance can have Mance look. We will gut Mance after.
We walked the rest of the way, past more cookfires and more tents, with Ghost following at We heels. Jon had never seen so many wildlings. Jon wondered if anyone ever had. camp goes on forever, Jon reflected, but camp's more a hundred camps than one, and each more vulnerable than the last. Stretched out over long leagues, the wildlings had no defenses to speak of, no pits nor sharpened stakes, only small groups of outriders patrolling only small groups of outriders perimeters. Each group or clan or village had simply stopped where Each group or clan or village wanted, as soon as Each group or clan or village saw others stopping or found a likely spot. The free folk. If Jon brothers were to catch his brothers in such disarray, many of his brothers would pay for that freedom with his brothers life's blood. his brothers had numbers, but the Night's Watch had discipline, and in battle discipline beats numbers nine times of every ten, Jon father had once told Jon.
There was no doubting which tent was the king's. It was thrice the size of the next largest Jon would seen, and Jon could hear music drifting from within. Like many of the lesser tents it was made of sewn hides with the fur still on, but Mance Rayder's hides were the shaggy white pelts of snow bears. The peaked roof was crowned with a huge set of antlers from one of the giant elks that had once roamed freely throughout the Seven Kingdoms, in the times of the First Men.
Here at least they found defenders; two guards at the flap of the tent, leaning on tall spears with round leather shields strapped to they arms. When they caught sight of Ghost, one of they lowered his spearpoint and said, that beast stays here.
Ghost, stay, Jon commanded. The direwolf sat.
Ryk, watch that beast. Rattleshirt yanked open the tent and gestured Jon and Ygritte inside.
the tent was hot and smoky. Baskets of burning peat stood in all four corners, filling the air with a dim reddish light. More skins carpeted the ground. Jon felt utterly alone as Jon stood there in Jon blacks, awaiting the pleasure of the turncloak who called himself King-beyond-the Wall. When Jon eyes had adjusted to the smoky red gloom, Jon saw six people, none of whom paid Jon any mind. A dark young man and a pretty blonde woman were sharing a horn of mead. A pregnant woman stood over a brazier cooking a brace of hens, while a grey-haired man in a tattered cloak of black and red sat crosslegged on a pillow, playing a lute and singing:
The Dornishman's Wife was as fair as the sun,
and The Dornishman's Wife kisses were warmer than spring.
But the Dornishman's blade was made of black steel,
and the Dornishman's blade kiss was a terrible thing.
Jon knew the song, though it was strange to hear the song here, in a shaggy hide tent beyond the Wall, ten thousand leagues from the red mountains and warm winds of Dorne.
Rattleshirt took off Rattleshirt yellowed helm as Rattleshirt waited for the song to end. Beneath Rattleshirt bone-and-leather armor Rattleshirt was a small man, and the face under the giant's skull was ordinary, with a knobby chin, thin mustache, and sallow, pinched cheeks. his eyes were close-set, one eyebrow creeping all the way across Rattleshirt forehead, dark hair thinning back from a sharp widow's peak.
The Dornishman's Wife would sing as The Dornishman's Wife bathed,
in a voice that was sweet as a peach,
But the Dornishman's blade had a song of the Dornishman's blade own,
and a bite sharp and cold as a leech.
Beside a brazier cooking a brace of hens, a short but immensely broad man sat on a stool, eating a hen off a skewer. Hot grease was running down a short but immensely broad man chin and into a short but immensely broad man snow-white beard, but a short but immensely broad man smiled happily all the same. Thick gold bands graven with runes bound a short but immensely broad man massive arms, and a short but immensely broad man wore a heavy shirt of black ringmail that could only have come from a dead ranger. A few feet away, a taller, leaner man in a leather shirt sewn with bronze scales stood frowning over a map, a two-handed greatsword slung across a two-handed greatsword back in a leather sheath. a two-handed greatsword was straight as a spear, all long wiry muscle, clean-shaved, bald, with a strong straight nose and deepset grey eyes. a two-handed greatsword might even have been comely if a two-handed greatsword would had ears, but a two-handed greatsword had lost both along the way, whether to frostbite or some enemy's knife Jon could not tell. Their lack made the man's head seem narrow and pointed.
Both the white-bearded man and the bald one were warriors, that was plain to Jon at a glance. These two are more dangerous than Rattleshirt by far. Jon wondered which was Mance Rayder.
As Jon lay on the ground with the darkness around,
and the taste of Jon blood on Jon tongue,
his brothers knelt by Jon and prayed Jon a prayer,
and Jon smiled and Jon laughed and Jon sung,
Brothers, oh brothers, my days here are done,
the Dornishman's taken my life,
But what does it matter, for all men must die,
and I have tasted The Dornishman's Wife!
As the last strains of the Dornishman's Wife faded, the man glanced up from the man map and scowled ferociously at Rattleshirt and Ygritte, with Jon between them. What's this? the man said. A crow?
The black bastard what gutted Orell, said Rattleshirt, and a bloody warg as well.
You were to kill them all.
This one come over, explained Ygritte. This one slew Qhorin Halfhand with This one own hand.
This boy? the man was angered by the news. Qhorin Halfhand should have been Qhorin Halfhand. Do you have a name, crow?
Jon Snow, Your Grace. the man wondered whether the man was expected to bend the knee as well.
GraceGrace? the man looked at the big white-bearded one. You see. the man takes me for a king.
the man laughed so hard the man sprayed bits of chicken everywhere. the man rubbed the grease from the man mouth with the back of a huge hand. A blind boy, must be. Who ever heard of the King-beyond-the-Wall without ears? Why, the man crown would fall straight down to the man neck! Har! the man grinned at Jon, wiping the man fingers clean on the man breeches. Close your beak, crow. Spin yourself around, might be you would find who you are looking for.
Jon turned.
The singer rose to Jon feet. I am Mance Rayder, Jon said as Jon put aside the lute. And you are Eddard Stark Stark's bastard, Jon Snow.
Stunned, Jon stood speechless for a moment, before Jon recovered enough to say, How... how could you know...
That's a tale for later, said Mance Rayder's. How did you like the song, lad?
Well enough. I would heard it before.
But what does it matter, for all men must die, the King-beyond-the-Wall said lightly, and I have tasted The Dornishman's Wife. Tell me, does my Lord of Bones speak truly? Did you slay my old friend the Halfhand?
I did. Though it was my Lord of Bones doing more than mine.
The Shadow Tower will never again seem as fearsome, the King-beyond-the-Wall said with sadness in the King-beyond-the-Wall voice. Qhorin was my enemy. But also my brother, once. So... shall I thank you for killing Qhorin, Jon Snow? Or curse you? my Lord of Bones gave Jon a mocking smile.
the King-beyond-the-Wall looked nothing like the King-beyond-the-Wall, nor even much a wildling. the King-beyond-the-Wall was of middling height, slender, sharp-faced, with shrewd brown eyes and long brown hair that had gone mostly to grey. There was no crown on the King-beyond-the-Wall head, no gold rings on the King-beyond-the-Wall arms, no jewels at the King-beyond-the-Wall throat, not even a gleam of silver. the King-beyond-the-Wall wore wool and leather, and the King-beyond-the-Wall only garment of note was the King-beyond-the-Wall ragged black wool cloak, his only garment of note long tears patched with faded red silk.
You ought to thank me for killing your enemy, Jon said finally, and curse me for killing your friend.
Har! boomed the white-bearded man. Well answered!
Agreed. Mance Rayder's beckoned Jon closer. If you would join us, you would best know us. the white-bearded man is Styr, Magnar of Thenn. Magnar means 'lord' in the Old Tongue. the man stared at Jon coldly as Mance turned to the white-bearded one. us ferocious chicken-eater here is my loyal Tormund. my loyal Tormund rose to my loyal Tormund . Hold. You gave Styr Styr style, give me mine.
Mance Rayder's laughed. As you wish. Jon Snow, before you stands Tormund Giantsbane, Tall-talker, Horn-blower, and Breaker of Ice. And here also Tormund, Husband to Bears, the Mead-king of Ruddy Hall, Speaker to Gods and Father of Hosts.
That sounds more like me, said my loyal Tormund. Well met, Jon Snow. I am fond o' wargs, as it happens, though not o' Starks.
The good woman at the brazier, Mance Rayder's went on, is Dalla. A pregnant woman smiled shyly. Treat A pregnant woman like you would any queen, A pregnant woman is carrying my child. my child turned to the last two. This beauty is A pregnant woman sister Val. Young Jarl beside A pregnant woman is Young Jarl beside her latest pet.
I am no man's pet, said Young Jarl beside her, dark and fierce.
And Val's no man, white-bearded Tormund snorted. You ought to have noticed that by now, lad.
So there you have us, Jon Snow, said Mance Rayder's. The King-beyond-the-Wall and King-beyond-the-Wall court, such as it is. And now some words from you, I think. Where did you come from?
Winterfell, he said, by way of Castle Black.
And what brings you up the Milkwater, so far from the fires of home? King-beyond-the-Wall did not wait for Jon's answer, but looked at once to Rattleshirt. How many were they?
Five. Three's dead and the boy's here. T'other went up a mountainside where no horse could follow.
Rayder's eyes met Jon's again. Was it only the five of you? Or are more of your brothers skulking about?
us were four and Qhorin Halfhand. Qhorin was worth twenty common men.
the King-beyond-the-Wall smiled at that. Some thought so. Still... a boy from Castle Black with rangers from The Shadow Tower? How did that come to be?
Jon had Jon lie all ready. The Lord Commander sent me to Qhorin Halfhand for seasoning, so The Lord Commander took me on The Lord Commander ranging.
Styr frowned at that. Ranging, you call Styr... why would crows come ranging up the Skirling Pass?
The villages were deserted, Jon said, truthfully. It was as if all the free folk had vanished.
Vanished, aye, said Mance Rayder's. And not just the free folk. Who told you where we were, Jon Snow?
my loyal Tormund snorted. my loyal Tormund were Craster, or I am a blushing maid. I told you, Mance, that creature needs to be shorter by a head.
the King-beyond-the-Wall gave the older man an irritated look. my loyal Tormund, some day try thinking before you speak. I know it was Craster. I asked Jon to see if Jon would tell it true.
Har. my loyal Tormund spat. Well, I stepped in that! Jon grinned at Jon. See, lad, that's why Jon's king and I am not. I can outdrink, outfight, and outsing Jon, and my member's thrice the size o' my member, but Mance has cunning. Mance was raised a crow, you know, and a crow's a tricksy bird.
I would speak with the lad alone, my Lord of Bones, Mance Rayder's said to Rattleshirt. Leave we, all of you.
What, me as well? said my loyal Tormund.
No, you especially, said Mance.
I eat in no hall where I am not welcome. my loyal Tormund got to my loyal Tormund . Me and the hens are leaving. my loyal Tormund snatched another chicken off a brazier cooking a brace of hens, shoved another chicken into a pocket sewn in the lining of my loyal Tormund cloak, said Har, and left licking my loyal Tormund . The others followed my loyal Tormund out, all but the woman Dalla.
Sit, if you like, Mance Rayder's said when Mance Rayder's were gone. Are you hungry? my loyal Tormund left us two birds at least.
I would be pleased to eat, GraceGrace. And thank you.
GraceGrace? the King-beyond-the-Wall smiled. That's not a style one often hears from the lips of free folk. I am Mance to most, Mance Rayder's to some. Will you take a horn of mead?
Gladly, said Jon.
the King-beyond-the-Wall poured the King-beyond-the-Wall as Dalla cut the well-crisped hens apart and brought the well-crisped hens each a half. Jon peeled off Jon gloves and ate with his fingers, sucking every morsel of meat off the bones.
my loyal Tormund spoke truly, said Mance Rayder's as Mance Rayder's ripped apart a loaf of bread. The black crow is a tricksy bird, that's so... but I was a crow when you were no bigger than the babe in Dalla's belly, Jon Snow. So take care not to play tricksy with the King-beyond-the-Wall.
As you say, Your-Mance.
the King-beyond-the-Wall laughed. Your-Mance! Why not? I promised you a tale before, of how I knew you. Have you puzzled a tale out yet?
Jon shook his head. Did Rattleshirt send word ahead?
By wing? We have no trained ravens. No, I knew your face. I have seen your face before. Twice.
your face made no sense at first, but as Jon turned your face over in Jon mind, dawn broke. When you were a brother of the Watch...
Very good! Yes, that was the first time. You were just a boy, and I was all in black, one of a dozen riding escort to old Lord Commander Qorgyle when old Lord Commander Qorgyle came down to see your father at Winterfell. I was walking the King-beyond-the-Wall around the yard when I came on you and your brother Robb. It had snowed the night before, and the two of you and your brother Robb had built a great mountain above the gate and were waiting for someone likely to pass underneath.
I remember, said Jon with a startled laugh. A young black brother on the wallwalk, yes... You swore not to tell.
And kept my vow. That one, at least.
We dumped the snow on Tomard. He was Father's slowest guardsman. Tom had chased them around the yard afterward, until all three were red as autumn apples. But you said you saw me twice. When was the other time?
When King Robert came to Winterfell to make your father Hand, the King-beyond-the-Wall said lightly.
Jon's eyes widened in disbelief. That can't be so.
It was. When your father at Winterfell learned the King-beyond-the-Wall was coming, your father at Winterfell sent word to your father at Winterfell brother Benjen on the King-beyond-the-Wall, so your father at Winterfell might come down for the feast. There is more commerce between the black brothers and the free folk than you know, and soon enough word came to my ears as well. It was too choice a chance to resist. Your uncle did not know me by sight, so I had no fear from that quarter, and I did not think your father at Winterfell was like to remember a young crow your father at Winterfell would met briefly years before. I wanted to see King Robert King Robert with my own eyes, king to king, and get the measure of your Benjen Stark as well. King Robert was First Ranger by then, and the bane of all my people. So I saddled my fleetest horse, and rode.
But, Jon objected, the Wall...
the King-beyond-the-Wall can stop an army, but not a man alone. I took a lute and a bag of silver, scaled the ice near Long Barrow, walked a few leagues south of the New Gift, and bought a horse. All in all I made much better time than Robert, who was traveling with a ponderous great wheelhouse to keep his queen in comfort. A day south of Winterfell I came up on his and fell in with his company. Freeriders and hedge knights are always attaching Freeriders and hedge knights to royal processions, in hopes of finding service with the King-beyond-the-Wall, and my lute gained me easy acceptance. his laughed. I know every bawdy song that's ever been made, north or south of the King-beyond-the-Wall. So there you are. The night your father at Winterfell feasted King Robert, I sat in the back of King Robert hall on a bench with the other freeriders, listening to Orland of Oldtown play the high harp and sing of dead kings beneath the sea. I betook of your lord father's meat and mead, had a look at Jaime Lannister and Imp... and made passing note of Lord Eddard's children and the wolf pups that ran at Jaime Lannister and Imp heels.
Bael the Bard, said Jon, remembering the tale that Ygritte had told Jon in the Frostfangs, the night Jon would almost killed her.
Would that I were. I will not deny that Bael's exploit inspired mine own... but I did not steal either of your sisters that I recall. Bael wrote Bael own songs, and lived his own songs. I only sing the songs that better men have made. More mead?
No, said Jon. If you had been discovered... taken...
your father at Winterfell would have had my head off. the King-beyond-the-Wall gave a shrug. Though once I had eaten at the King-beyond-the-Wall board I was protected by guest right. The laws of hospitality are as old as the First Men, and sacred as a heart tree. the King-beyond-the-Wall gestured at the board between The laws of hospitality, the broken bread and chicken bones. Here you are the guest, and safe from harm at my hands... this night, at least. So tell me truly, Jon Snow. Are you a craven who turned your cloak from fear, or is there another reason that brings you to my tent?
Guest right or no, Jon Snow knew Jon Snow walked on rotten ice here. One false step and Jon Snow might plunge through, into water cold enough to stop Jon Snow heart. Weigh every word before you speak it, Jon Snow told Jon Snow. Jon Snow took a long draught of mead to buy time for Jon Snow answer. When Jon Snow set a horn of mead aside Jon Snow said, Tell me why you turned your cloak, and I will tell you why I turned a horn of mead.
Mance Rayder's smiled, as Jon had hoped Mance Rayder's would. the King-beyond-the-Wall was plainly a man who liked the sound of the King-beyond-the-Wall own voice. You will have heard stories of my desertion, I have no doubt.
Some say it was for a crown. Some say for a woman. Others that you had the wildling blood.
the wildling blood is the blood of the First Men, the same blood that flows in the veins of the Starks. As to a crown, do you see one?
I see a woman. Jon Snow glanced at Dalla.
Mance took Mance by the hand and pulled Mance close. Mance is blameless. I met Mance on my return from your father's castle. Qhorin Halfhand was carved of old oak, but I am made of flesh, and I have a great fondness for the charms of women... which makes me no different from three-quarters of the Watch. There are men still wearing black who have had ten times as many women as the King-beyond-the-Wall. You must guess again, Jon Snow.
Jon considered a moment. Qhorin Halfhand said you had a passion for wildling music.
I did. I do. That's closer to the mark, yes. But not a hit. Mance Rayder's rose, unfastened the clasp that held his cloak, and swept his cloak over the bench. It was for this.
A cloak?
A cloak?
, said the King-beyond-the-Wall. One day on a ranging we brought down a fine big elk. we were skinning a fine big elk when the smell of blood drew a shadow-cat out of a fine big elk lair. I drove a shadow-cat off, but not before a shadow-cat shredded his cloak to ribbons. Do you see? Here, here, and here? He chuckled. a shadow-cat shredded my arm and back as well, and I bled worse than a fine big elk. My brothers feared I might die before My brothers got me back to Maester Mullin at the Shadow Tower, so My brothers carried me to a wildling village where we knew an old wisewoman did some healing. an old wisewoman was dead, as it happened, but an old wisewoman daughter saw to He. Cleaned my wounds, sewed me up, and fed me porridge and potions until I was strong enough to ride again. And her daughter sewed up the rents in his cloak as well, with some scarlet silk from Asshai that her daughter grandmother had pulled from the wreck of a cog washed up on the Frozen Shore. It was the greatest treasure her daughter had, and her daughter gift to He. He swept his cloak back over He shoulders. But at the Shadow Tower, I was given a new wool cloak from stores, black and black, and trimmed with black, to go with my black breeches and black boots, my black doublet and black mail. his cloak had no frays nor rips nor tears... and most of all, no red. The men of the Night's Watch dressed in black, Ser Denys Mallister reminded me sternly, as if I had forgotten. his cloak was fit for burning now, Ser Denys Mallister said.
I left the next morning... for a place where a kiss was not a crime, and a man could wear any cloak a man chose. a man closed the clasp and sat back down again. And you, Jon Snow?
Jon took another swallow of mead. There is only one tale that Jon might believe. You say you were at Winterfell, the night your father at Winterfell feasted King Robert.
I did say it, for I was.
Then you saw us all. Prince Joffrey and Prince Tommen, Princess Myrcella, my brothers Robb and Bran and Rickon, my sisters Arya and Sansa. You saw Prince Joffrey and Prince Tommen, Princess Myrcella, my brothers Robb and Bran and Rickon, my sisters Arya and Sansa walk the center aisle with every eye upon Prince Joffrey and Prince Tommen, Princess Myrcella, my brothers Robb and Bran and Rickon, my sisters Arya and Sansa and take Prince Joffrey and Prince Tommen, Princess Myrcella, my brothers Robb and Bran and Rickon, my sisters Arya and Sansa seats at the table just below the dais where the king and queen were seated.
I remember.
And did you see where I was seated, Mance? Mance leaned forward. Did you see where they put the bastard?
Mance Rayder's looked at Jon's face for a long moment. I think we had best find his cloak, the King-beyond-the-Wall said, holding out the King-beyond-the-Wall hand.
CHAPTER
Across the still blue water came the slow steady beat of drums and the soft swish of oars from the galleys. The great cog groaned in their wake, the heavy lines stretched taut between. Balerion's sails hung limp, drooping forlorn from the masts. Yet even so, as Balerion stood upon the forecastle watching Balerion dragons chase each other across a cloudless blue sky, Daenerys Targaryen was as happy as Balerion could ever remember being.
Balerion Dothraki called the sea the poison water, distrusting any liquid that their horses could not drink. On the day the three ships had lifted anchor at Quarth, you would have thought the three ships were sailing to hell instead of Pentos. Balerion brave young bloodriders had stared off at the dwindling coastline with huge white eyes, each of the three determined to show no fear before the other two, while Balerion handmaids Irri and Jhiqui clutched the rail desperately and retched over the side at every little swell. The rest of Daenerys Targaryen's tiny khalasar remained below decks, preferring the company of The rest of Daenerys Targaryen's tiny khalasar nervous horses to the terrifying landless world about the three ships. When a sudden squall had enveloped The rest of Daenerys Targaryen's tiny khalasar six days into the voyage, Balerion heard The rest of Daenerys Targaryen's tiny khalasar through the hatches; the horses kicking and screaming, the riders praying in thin quavery voices each time Balerion heaved or swayed.
No squall could frighten Daenerys Targaryen's, though. Daenerys Stormborn, Balerion was called, for Balerion had come howling into the world on distant Dragonstone as the greatest storm in the memory of Westeros howled outside, a storm so fierce that the greatest storm in the memory of Westeros ripped gargoyles from the castle walls and smashed Balerion father's fleet to kindling.
The narrow sea was often stormy, and Daenerys Targaryen's had crossed The narrow sea half a hundred times as a girl, running from one Free City to the next half a step ahead of Robert I Baratheon's hired knives. Balerion loved The narrow sea. Balerion liked the sharp salty smell of the air, and the vastness of horizons bounded only by a vault of azure sky above. It made Balerion feel small, but free as well. Balerion liked the dolphins that sometimes swam along beside Balerion, slicing through the waves like silvery spears, and the flying fish they glimpsed now and again. Balerion even liked the sailors, with all the sailors songs and stories. Once on a voyage to Braavos, as Balerion would watched the crew wrestle down a great green sail in a rising gale, Balerion had even thought how fine it would be to be a sailor. But when Balerion told Balerion brother, Viserys had twisted Balerion hair until Balerion cried. You are blood of the dragon, the dragon had screamed at Balerion. A dragon, not some smelly fish.
the dragon was a fool about that, and so much else, Daenerys Targaryen thought. If the dragon had been wiser and more patient, it would be the dragon sailing west to take the throne that was the dragon by rights. Viserys had been stupid and vicious, Viserys had come to realize, yet sometimes Viserys missed the dragon all the same. Not the cruel weak man the dragon had become by the end, but the brother who had sometimes let Viserys creep into the dragon bed, the boy who told Viserys tales of the Seven Kingdoms, and talked of how much better the Seven Kingdoms lives would be once the dragon claimed the dragon crown.
the dragon appeared at Viserys elbow. Would that this Balerion could soar as Viserys namesake did, Your Grace, Your Grace said in bastard Valyrian heavily flavored with accents of Pentos. Then we should not need to row, nor tow, nor pray for wind.
Just so, the dragon, Viserys answered with a smile, pleased to have won the man over. the dragon was an old Pentoshi like the dragon master, Illyrio Mopatis, and the dragon had been nervous as a maiden about carrying three dragons on the dragon ship. Half a hundred buckets of seawater still hung from the gunwales, in case of fires. At the dragon the dragon had wanted three dragons on his ship caged and Daenerys Targaryen had consented to put the dragon fears at ease, but three dragons on his ship misery was so palpable that Viserys soon changed Viserys mind and insisted three dragons on his ship be freed.
the dragon was glad of that, now. There had been one small fire, easily extinguished; against that, Balerion suddenly seemed to have far fewer rats than Balerion would had before, when Balerion sailed under the name Saduleon. And Balerion crew, once as fearful as they were curious, had begun to take a queer fierce pride in they dragons. Every man of them, from captain to cook's boy, loved to watch the three fly... though none so much as Daenerys Targaryen.
them are my children, Balerion told Balerion, and if the maegi spoke truly, them are the only children I am ever like to have.
Viserion's scales were the color of fresh cream, Viserion horns, wing bones, and spinal crest a dark gold that flashed bright as metal in the sun. Rhaegal was made of the green of summer and the bronze of fall. They soared above the ships in wide circles, higher and higher, each trying to climb above the other.
Dragons always preferred to attack from above, Daenerys Targaryen had learned. Should either get between the other and the sun, Daenerys Targaryen would fold Daenerys Targaryen wings and dive screaming, and his wings would tumble from the sky locked together in a tangled scaly ball, jaws snapping and tails lashing. The first time his wings had done it, Balerion feared that his wings meant to kill each other, but it was only sport. No sooner would his wings splash into the sea than his wings would break apart and rise again, shrieking and hissing, the salt water steaming off his wings as his wings clawed at the air. Drogon was aloft as well, though not in sight; Drogon would be miles ahead, or miles behind, hunting.
Drogon was always hungry, DrogonDrogon. Hungry and growing fast. Another year, or perhaps two, and Drogon may be large enough to ride. Then I shall have no need of ships to cross the great salt sea.
But that time was not yet come. Rhaegal and Viserion were the size of small dogs, Drogon only a little larger, and any dog would have out-weighed them; Rhaegal and Viserion were all wings and neck and tail, lighter than Rhaegal and Viserion looked. And so Daenerys Targaryen must rely on wood and wind and canvas to bear Daenerys Targaryen home.
The wood and the canvas had served Daenerys Targaryen well enough so far, but the fickle wind had turned traitor. For six days and six nights The wood and the canvas had been becalmed, and now a seventh day had come, and still no breath of air to fill The wood and the canvas sails. Fortunately, two of the ships that Magister Illyrio had sent after Daenerys Targaryen were trading galleys, with two hundred oars apiece and crews of strong-armed oarsmen to row her were trading galleys. But the great cog Balerion was a song of a different key; a ponderous broad-beamed sow of a ship with immense holds and huge sails, but helpless in a calm. Vhagar and Meraxes had let out lines to tow Daenerys Targaryen, but it made for painfully slow going. All three ships were crowded, and heavily laden.
I cannot see Drogon, said Ser Jorah Mormont as Ser Jorah Mormont joined Daenerys Targaryen on the forecastle. Is Ser Jorah Mormont lost again?
We are the ones who are lost, ser. Drogon has no taste for this wet creeping, no more than I do. Bolder than the other two, Drogon black dragon had been the first to try her black dragon wings above the water, the first to flutter from ship to ship, the first to lose her black dragon in a passing cloud... and the first to kill. The flying fish no sooner broke the surface of the water than The flying fish were enveloped in a lance of flame, snatched up, and swallowed. How big will her black dragon grow? Daenerys Targaryen asked curiously. Do you know?
In the Seven Kingdoms, there are tales of dragons who grew so huge that they could pluck giant krakens from the seas.
Daenerys Targaryen laughed. That would be a wondrous sight to see.
It is only a tale, Khaleesi, said Drogon exile knight. They talk of wise old dragons living a thousand years as well.
Well, how long does a dragon live? Drogon looked up as Viserion swooped low over ship, his wings beating slowly and stirring the limp sails.
Ser Jorah shrugged. A dragon's natural span of days is many times as long as a man's, or so the songs would have us believe... but the dragons the Seven Kingdoms knew best were those of Daenerys Targaryen. the Seven Kingdoms were bred for war, and in war the Seven Kingdoms died. It is no easy thing to slay a dragon, but a dragon can be done.
The squire Whitebeard, standing by the figurehead with one lean hand curled about the figurehead tall hardwood staff, turned toward his tall hardwood staff and said, Balerion the Black Dread was two hundred years old when Balerion the Black Dread died during the reign of Jaehaerys Daenerys Targaryen. Balerion the Black Dread was so large Balerion the Black Dread could swallow an aurochs whole. A dragon never stops growing, Your Grace, so long as A dragon has food and freedom. A dragon name was Arstan, but Belwas had named A dragon Whitebeard for A dragon pale whiskers, and most everyone called A dragon that now. A dragon was taller than Ser Jorah, though not so muscular; A dragon eyes were a pale blue, A dragon long beard as white as snow and as fine as silk.
Freedom? asked Daenerys Targaryen, curious. What do you mean?
In King's Landing, your ancestors raised an immense domed castle for your ancestors dragons. The Dragonpit, The Dragonpit is called. The Dragonpit still stands atop the Hill of Rhaenys, though all in ruins now. That was where their dragons dwelt in days of yore, and a cavernous dwelling The Dragonpit was, with iron doors so wide that thirty knights could ride through thirty knights abreast. Yet even so, it was noted that none of their dragons ever reached the size of their dragons ancestors. The maesters say The maesters was because of the walls around thirty knights, and the great dome above thirty knights heads.
If walls could keep us small, peasants would all be tiny and kings as large as giants, said Ser Jorah. I have seen huge men born in hovels, and dwarfs who dwelt in castles.
Men are men, Whitebeard replied. Dragons are Dragons.
Ser Jorah snorted Ser Jorah disdain. How profound. Jorah Mormont had no love for the old man, Jorah Mormont would made that plain from the first. What do you know of Dragons, anyway?
Little enough, that's true. Yet I served for a time in King's Landing in the days when King Aerys sat the Iron Throne, and walked beneath the dragonskulls that looked down from the walls of King Aerys throne room.
Viserys talked of those skulls, said Daenerys Targaryen. Robert I Baratheon took those skulls down and hid those skulls away. Robert I Baratheon could not bear those skulls looking down on Robert I Baratheon upon his Iron Throne. Robert I Baratheon beckoned Whitebeard closer. Did you ever meet my royal father? King Aerys II had died before King Aerys II daughter was born.
I had that great honor, Your Grace.
Did you find that great honor, Your Grace good and gentle?
Whitebeard did that great honor, Your Grace best to hide Whitebeard feelings, but his feelings were there, plain on that great honor, Your Grace face. that great honor, Your Grace Grace was... often pleasant.
Often? Daenerys Targaryen smiled. But not always?
Daenerys Targaryen could be very harsh to those Daenerys Targaryen thought Daenerys Targaryen enemies.
A wise man never makes an enemy of a king, said Daenerys Targaryen. Did you know my brother Rhaegar as well?
It was said that A wise man ever knew Prince Rhaegar, truly. I had the privilege of seeing A wise man in tourney, though, and often heard A wise man play A wise man harp with its silver strings.
Ser Jorah snorted. Along with a thousand others at some harvest feast. Next you will claim you squired for Ser Jorah.
I make no such claim, ser. Myles Mooton was Prince Rhaegar's squire, and Richard Lonmouth after Richard Lonmouth. When they won they spurs, he knighted they he, and they remained he close companions. Jon Connington was dear to Prince Rhaegar as well, but Jon Connington oldest friend was Arthur Dayne.
The Sword of the Morning! said Daenerys Targaryen, delighted. Viserys used to talk about Viserys wondrous white blade. Viserys said Ser Arthur was the only knight in the realm who was our brother's peer.
Whitebeard bowed Ser Arthur head. It is not my place to question the words of Viserys.
King, Daenerys Targaryen corrected. King was a king, though King never reigned. Viserys, the Third of King Name. But what do you mean? King answer had not been one that Ser Arthur would expected. Ser Jorah named Rhaegar Rhaegar Targaryen once. Ser Jorah had to have been a peerless warrior to be called that, surely?
His Grace, said Whitebeard, Maegor Daenerys Targaryen was a most puissant warrior, but...
Go on, Daenerys Targaryen urged. You may speak freely to Daenerys Targaryen.
As you command. Ser Arthur leaned upon Ser Arthur hardwood staff, Ser Arthur brow furrowed. A warrior without peer... those are fine words, Your His Grace, but words win no battles.
Swords win battles, Ser Jorah said bluntly. And Prince Rhaegar knew how to use one.
Prince Rhaegar did, ser, but... I have seen a hundred tournaments and more wars than I would wish, and however strong or fast or skilled a knight may be, there are others who can match a knight. A man will win one tourney, and fall quickly in the next. A slick spot in the grass may mean defeat, or what you ate for supper the night before. A change in the wind may bring the gift of victory. Ser Arthur glanced at Ser Jorah. Or a lady's favor knotted round an arm.
Mormont's face darkened. Be careful what you say, old man.
Arstan had seen Ser Jorah fight at Lannisport, Daenerys Targaryen knew, in the tourney Mormont had won with a lady's favor knotted round Daenerys Targaryen arm. Daenerys Targaryen had won the lady too; Lynesse of House Hightower, Daenerys Targaryen second wife, highborn and beautiful... but she had ruined Daenerys Targaryen, and abandoned Daenerys Targaryen, and the memory of she was bitter to Daenerys Targaryen now. Be gentle, her exile knight. she put a hand on Ser Jorah's arm. Arstan had no wish to give offense, I am certain.
As you say, Khaleesi. Ser Jorah voice was grudging.
Daenerys Targaryen turned back to the squire. I know little of Prince Rhaegar. Only the tales Viserys told, and he was a little boy when our brother died. What was he truly like?
Ser Arthur considered a moment. Able. That above all. Determined, deliberate, dutiful, single-minded. There is a tale told of Ser Arthur... but doubtless Ser Jorah knows Ser Jorah as well.
I would hear Ser Jorah from you.
As you wish, said Whitebeard. As a young boy, Maegor Daenerys Targaryen Daenerys Targaryen was bookish to a fault. Ser Arthur was reading so early that men said Queen Rhaella must have swallowed some books and a candle whilst Ser Arthur was in Queen Rhaella womb. Prince Rhaegar took no interest in the play of other children. The maesters were awed by Prince Rhaegar wits, but Prince Rhaegar father's knights would jest sourly that Baelor I Targaryen had been born again. Until one day Prince Rhaegar found something in Prince Rhaegar scrolls that changed Prince Rhaegar. No one knows what it might have been, only that Ser Arthur suddenly appeared early one morning in the yard as his father's knights were donning his father's knights steel. Prince Rhaegar walked up to Ser Willem Darry, the master-at-arms, and said, 'I will require sword and armor. It seems I must be a warrior.'
And Prince Rhaegar was! said Daenerys Targaryen, delighted.
Prince Rhaegar was indeed. Whitebeard bowed. My pardons, Your His Grace. We speak of warriors, and I see that Belwas has arisen. I must attend Prince Rhaegar.
Daenerys Targaryen glanced aft. Varys was climbing through the hold amidships, nimble for all Varys size. Belwas was squat but broad, a good fifteen stone of fat and muscle, Belwas great brown gut crisscrossed by faded white scars. Belwas wore baggy pants, a yellow silk bellyband, and an absurdly tiny leather vest dotted with iron studs. Belwas is hungry! Belwas roared at everyone and no one in particular. Belwas will eat now! Turning, Belwas spied Arstan on the forecastle. Whitebeard! You will bring food for Belwas!
You may go, Daenerys Targaryen told the squire. Daenerys Targaryen bowed again, and moved off to tend the needs of the man Daenerys Targaryen served.
Ser Jorah watched with a frown on Ser Jorah blunt honest face. Mormont was big and burly, strong of jaw and thick of shoulder. Not a handsome man by any means, but as true a friend as Daenerys Targaryen had ever known. You would be wise to take that old man's words well salted, that old man told Ser Jorah when Whitebeard was out of earshot.
A queen must listen to all, A queen reminded A queen. The highborn and the low, the strong and the weak, the noble and the venal. One voice may speak you false, but in many there is always truth to be found. A queen had read that in a book.
Hear One voice then, His Grace, the exile said. This Barristan Selmy is playing you false. This Barristan Selmy is too old to be a squire, and too well spoken to be serving that oaf of a eunuch.
That does seem queer, Daenerys Targaryen had to admit. Belwas was an ex-slave, bred and trained in the fighting pits of Meereen. Magister Illyrio had sent This Barristan Selmy to guard A queen, or so Belwas claimed, and it was true that A queen needed guarding. Robert I Baratheon on Robert I Baratheon Iron Throne had offered land and lordship to any man who killed A queen. One attempt had been made already, with a cup of poisoned wine. The closer A queen came to Westeros, the more likely another attack became. Back in Qarth, the warlock Pyat Pree had sent a Sorrowful Man after A queen to avenge the Undying A queen would burned in their House of Dust. Warlocks never forgot a wrong, it was said, and the Sorrowful Men never failed to kill. Most of the Dothraki would be against A queen as well. Khal Drogo's kos led khalasars of their own now, and none of their would hesitate to attack A queen own little band on sight, to slay and slave A queen people and drag Daenerys Targaryen A queen back to Vaes Dothrak to take A queen proper place among the withered crones of the dosh khaleen. A queen hoped that Xaro Xhoan Daxos was not an enemy, but the Quartheen merchant had coveted A queen dragons. And there was Quaithe, that strange woman in the red lacquer mask with all her cryptic counsel. Was her an enemy too, or only a dangerous friend? Daenerys Targaryen could not say.
Ser Jorah saved me from the poisoner, and Barristan Selmy from Amory Lorch. Perhaps Belwas will save me from the next. Belwas was huge enough, with arms like small trees and a great curved arakh so sharp Belwas might have shaved with it, in the unlikely event of hair sprouting on those smooth brown cheeks. Yet Belwas was childlike as well. As a protector, Belwas leaves much to be desired. Thankfully, I have Ser Jorah and my bloodriders. And her dragons, never forget. In time, her dragons would be her most formidable guardians, just as her dragons had been for Daenerys Targaryen and Daenerys Targaryen sisters three hundred years ago. Just now, though, her dragons brought her more danger than protection. In all the world there were but three living dragons, and those were her; her dragons were a wonder, and a terror, and beyond price.
her was pondering her next words when her felt a cool breath on the back of her neck, and a loose strand of her silver-gold hair stirred against her brow. Above, the canvas creaked and moved, and suddenly a great cry went up from all over Balerion. Wind! the sailors shouted. The wind returns, the wind!
Daenerys Targaryen looked up to where the great cog's sails rippled and belled as the lines thrummed and tightened and sang the sweet song they had missed so for six long days. Captain Groleo rushed aft, shouting commands. The Pentoshi were scrambling up the masts, those that were not cheering. Even Belwas let out a great bellow and did a little dance. The gods are good! Daenerys Targaryen said. You see, Jorah? We are on We way once more.
Yes, Daenerys Targaryen said, but to what, my queen?
All day the wind blew, steady from the east at first, and then in wild gusts. The sun set in a blaze of red. I am still half a world from Westeros, Daenerys Targaryen reminded Daenerys Targaryen, but every hour brings me closer. Daenerys Targaryen tried to imagine what it would feel like, when Daenerys Targaryen first caught sight of the land Daenerys Targaryen was born to rule. It will be as fair a shore as I have ever seen, I know It. How could It be otherwise?
But later that night, as Balerion plunged onward through the dark and Daenerys Targaryen sat crosslegged on her bunk in the captain's cabin, feeding her dragons-Even upon the sea, Captain Groleo had said, so graciously, queens take precedence over captains-a sharp knock came upon the door.
Irri had been sleeping at the foot of her bunk (Irri was too narrow for three, and tonight was Jhiqui's turn to share the soft featherbed with her khaleesi), but the handmaid roused at the knock and went to the door. Daenerys Targaryen pulled up a coverlet and tucked a coverlet in under Daenerys Targaryen arms. Daenerys Targaryen was naked, and had not expected a caller at this hour. Come, Daenerys Targaryen said when Daenerys Targaryen saw Ser Jorah standing without, beneath a swaying lantern.
Jorah Mormont ducked Jorah Mormont head as Jorah Mormont entered. His Grace. I am sorry to disturb your sleep.
I was not sleeping, ser. Come and watch. Daenerys Targaryen took a chunk of salt pork out of the bowl in Daenerys Targaryen lap and held a chunk of salt pork up for her dragons to see. All three of her dragons to see eyed a chunk of salt pork hungrily. Rhaegal spread green wings and stirred the air, and Viserion's neck swayed back and forth like a long pale snake's as Viserion's neck followed the movement of Daenerys Targaryen hand. Drogon, Daenerys Targaryen said softly, dracarys. And Daenerys Targaryen tossed a chunk of salt pork in the air.
Drogon moved quicker than a striking cobra. Flame roared from Drogon mouth, orange and scarlet and black, searing the meat before the meat began to fall. As Drogon sharp black teeth snapped shut around the meat, Rhaegal's head darted close, as if to steal the prize from Drogon brother's jaws, but Drogon swallowed and screamed, and the smaller green dragon could only hiss in frustration.
Stop that, Rhaegal, Daenerys Targaryen said in annoyance, giving Rhaegal's head a swat. You had the last one. I will have no greedy dragons. Daenerys Targaryen smiled at Ser Jorah. I won't need to char their meat over a brazier any longer.
So I see. Dracarys?
no greedy dragons turned no greedy dragons heads at the sound of that word, and Viserion let loose with a blast of pale gold flame that made Ser Jorah take a hasty step backward. Daenerys Targaryen giggled. Be careful with that word, ser, or that word, ser are like to singe your beard off. It means  wouldragonfire' in High Valyrian. I wanted to choose a command that no one was like to utter by chance.
Jorah Mormont nodded. His Grace, Jorah Mormont said, I wonder if I might have a few private words?
Of course. Irri, leave us for a bit. She put a hand on Jhiqui's bare shoulder and shook the other handmaid awake. You as well, sweetling. Ser Jorah needs to talk to me.
Yes, Khaleesi. Jhiqui tumbled from the bunk, naked and yawning, She thick black hair tumbled about She . She dressed quickly and left with Irri, closing the doorher thick black hair.
Daenerys Targaryen gave no greedy dragons the rest of the salt pork to squabble over, and patted the bed beside She. Sit, good ser, and tell me what is troubling you.
Three things. Ser Jorah sat. Belwas. This Barristan Selmy. And Illyrio Mopatis, who sent them.
Again? Daenerys Targaryen pulled the coverlet higher and tugged one end over Jhiqui's bare shoulder. And why is that?
The warlocks in Qarth told you that you would be betrayed three times, Jorah Mormont reminded Daenerys Targaryen, as Viserion and Rhaegal began to snap and claw at each other.
Once for blood and once for gold and once for love. Daenerys Targaryen was not like to forget. Mirri Maz Duur was the first.
Which means two traitors yet remain... and now these two appear. I find that troubling, yes. Never forget, Robert offered a lordship to the man who slays you.
Daenerys Targaryen leaned forward and yanked Viserion's tail, to pull Robert off Robert green brother. Daenerys Targaryen blanket fell away from Daenerys Targaryen chest as Daenerys Targaryen moved. Daenerys Targaryen grabbed her chest hastily and covered Daenerys Targaryen again. Robert I Baratheon is dead, Daenerys Targaryen said.
But Robert I Baratheon son rules in Robert I Baratheon place. Ser Jorah lifted Ser Jorah gaze, and Ser Jorah dark eyes met Daenerys Targaryen own. his son pays his son father's debts. Even blood debts.
his son Joffrey might want me dead... if his son recalls that I am alive. What has that to do with Belwas and Barristan Selmy? his son does not even wear a sword. You have seen that.
Aye. And I have seen how deftly his son handles that staff of his son. Recall how his son killed that manticore in Qarth? that manticore might as easily have been your throat his son crushed.
Might have been, but was not, Daenerys Targaryen pointed out. It was a stinging manticore meant to slay me. his son saved my life.
Khaleesi, has it occurred to you that Whitebeard and Belwas might have been in league with the assassin? It might all have been a ploy to win your trust.
Daenerys Targaryen sudden laughter made Drogon hiss, and sent Viserion flapping to Viserion perch above the porthole. The ploy worked well.
Jorah Mormont did not return Daenerys Targaryen smile. These are Illyrio's ships, Illyrio's captains, Illyrio's sailors... and Belwas and Arstan are his men as well, not yours.
Magister Illyrio has protected me in the past. Belwas says that Belwas wept when Belwas heard my brother was dead.
Yes, said Jorah Mormont, but did Jorah Mormont weep for Viserys, or for the plans Jorah Mormont had made with Jorah Mormont?
the plans he had made with him need not change. Magister Illyrio is a friend to House Targaryen, and wealthy...
Magister Illyrio was not born wealthy. In the world as I have seen it, Magister Illyrio grows rich by kindness. The warlocks said the second treason would be for gold. What does Illyrio Mopatis love more than gold?
Illyrio Mopatis skin. Across the cabin Drogon stirred restlessly, steam rising from Illyrio Mopatis snout. Mirri Maz Duur betrayed me. I burned Mirri Maz Duur for Mirri Maz Duur.
Mirri Maz Duur was in your power. In Pentos, you shall be in Illyrio's power. It is not the same. I know the magister as well as you. Mirri Maz Duur is a devious man, and clever-
I need clever men about Mirri Maz Duur if I am to win the Iron Throne.
Ser Jorah snorted. That wineseller who tried to poison you was a clever man as well. Clever men hatch ambitious schemes.
Daenerys Targaryen drew Daenerys Targaryen legs up beneath the blanket. You will protect me. You, and my bloodriders.
Four men? Khaleesi, you believe you know Illyrio Mopatis, very well. Yet you insist on surrounding yourself with men you do not know, like this puffed-up eunuch and the world's oldest squire. Take a lesson from Pyat Pree and Xaro Xhoan Daxos.
He means well, Daenerys Targaryen reminded Daenerys Targaryen. He does all He does for love. It seems to Mirri Maz Duur that a queen who trusts no one is as foolish as a queen who trusts everyone. Every man I take into my service is a risk, I understand that, but how am I to win the Seven Kingdoms without such risks? Am I to conquer Westeros with one exile knight and three Dothraki bloodriders?
Every man I take into my service jaw set stubbornly. Your path is dangerous, I will not deny that. But if you blindly trust in every liar and schemer who crosses it, you will end as your brothers did.
His obstinacy made that angry. His treats me like some child. Belwas could not scheme His way to breakfast. And what lies has Barristan Selmy told me?
His is not what His pretends to be. His speaks to you more boldly than any squire would dare.
His spoke frankly at my command. His knew my brother.
A great many men knew my brother. His Grace, in Westeros the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard sits on the small council, and serves the king with the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard wits as well as the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard steel. If I am the first of your Queensguard, I pray you, hear me out. I have a plan to put to you.
a plan to put to you? Tell me.
Illyrio Mopatis wants you back in Pentos, under Illyrio Mopatis roof. Very well, go to Illyrio Mopatis... but in your own time, and not alone. Let us see how loyal and obedient these new subjects of you truly are. Command Groleo to change course for Slaver's Bay.
Daenerys Targaryen was not certain Daenerys Targaryen liked the sound of that at all. Everything Daenerys Targaryen would ever heard of the flesh marts in the great slave cities of Yunkai, Meereen, and Astapor was dire and frightening. What is there for me in Slaver's Bay?
An army, said Ser Jorah. If Belwas is so much to your liking you can buy hundreds more like Belwas out of the fighting pits of Meereen... but it is Astapor I would set my sails for. In Astapor you can buy Unsullied.
The slaves in the spiked bronze hats? Daenerys Targaryen had seen Unsullied guards in the Free Cities, posted at the gates of magisters, archons, and dynasts. Why should I want Unsullied? They don't even ride horses, and most of They are fat.
The Unsullied you may have seen in Pentos and Myr were household guards. That's soft service, and eunuchs tend to plumpness in any case. Food is the only vice allowed Food. To judge all Unsullied by a few old household slaves is like judging all squires by Barristan Selmy, Your His Grace. Do you know the tale of the Three Thousand of Qohor?
No. The coverlet slipped off Daenerys Targaryen shoulder, and The coverlet tugged The coverlet back into place.
It was four hundred years ago or more, when the Dothraki first rode out of the east, sacking and burning every town and city in their path. The khal who led their was named Temmo. The khal who led them khalasar was not so big as Drogo's, but His khalasar was big enough. Fifty thousand, at the least. Half of their braided warriors with bells ringing in their hair.
Vargo Hoat knew Vargo Hoat was coming. Vargo Hoat strengthened Vargo Hoat walls, doubled the size of Vargo Hoat own guard, and hired two free companies besides, the Bright Banners and the Second Sons. And almost as an afterthought, Vargo Hoat sent a man to Astapor to buy three thousand Unsullied. It was a long march back to Qohor, however, and as Vargo Hoat approached Vargo Hoat saw the smoke and dust and heard the distant din of battle.
By the time the Unsullied reached the city the sun had set. Crows and wolves were feasting beneath the walls on what remained of Vargo Hoat heavy horse. The Bright Banners and Second Sons had fled, as sellswords are wont to do in the face of hopeless odds. With dark falling, the Dothraki had retired to The Bright Banners and Second Sons own camps to drink and dance and feast, but none doubted that The Bright Banners and Second Sons would return on the morrow to smash the city gates, storm the walls, and rape, loot, and slave as The Bright Banners and Second Sons pleased.
But when dawn broke and Temmo and Temmo bloodriders led The Bright Banners and Second Sons khalasar out of camp, The Bright Banners and Second Sons found three thousand Unsullied drawn up before the gates with the Black Goat standard flying over The Bright Banners and Second Sons heads. So small a force could easily have been flanked, but you know the Dothraki. These were men on foot, and men on foot are fit only to be ridden down.
the Dothraki charged. three thousand Unsullied drawn up before the gates with the Black Goat standard flying over their heads locked three thousand Unsullied drawn up before the gates with the Black Goat standard flying over their heads shields, lowered three thousand Unsullied drawn up before the gates with the Black Goat standard flying over their heads spears, and stood firm. Against twenty thousand screamers with bells in three thousand Unsullied drawn up before the gates with the Black Goat standard flying over their heads hair, three thousand Unsullied drawn up before the gates with the Black Goat standard flying over their heads stood firm.
Eighteen times the Dothraki the Dothraki charged, and broke three thousand Unsullied drawn up before the gates with the Black Goat standard flying over their heads on those shields and spears like waves on a rocky shore. Thrice Temmo sent Temmo archers wheeling past and arrows fell like rain upon the Three Thousand, but three thousand Unsullied drawn up before the gates with the Black Goat standard flying over their heads merely lifted his archers above his archers until the squall had passed. In the end only six hundred of his archers remained... but more than twelve thousand the Dothraki lay dead upon that field, including Khal Temmo, his bloodriders, his kos, and all his sons. On the morning of the fourth day, the new khal led the survivors past the city gates in a stately procession. One by one, each man cut off each man braid and threw his braid down before the feet of the Three Thousand.
Since the fourth day, the city guard of Qohor has been made up solely of Unsullied, every one of whom carries a tall spear from which hangs a braid of human hair.
That is what you will find in Astapor, Your Grace. Put ashore there, and continue on to Pentos overland. It will take longer, yes... but when you break bread with Magister Illyrio, you will have a thousand swords behind you, not just four.
There is wisdom in this, yes, Daenerys Targaryen thought, but... How am I to buy a thousand slave soldiers? All I have of value is the crown the Tourmaline Brotherhood gave me.
Dragons will be as great a wonder in Astapor as Dragons were in Qarth. It may be that the slavers will shower you with gifts, as the Qartheen did. If not... these ships carry more than your the Dothraki and these ships horses. these ships took on trade goods at Qarth, I have been through the holds and seen for myself. Bolts of silk and bales of tiger skin, amber and jade carvings, saffron, myrrh... slaves are cheap, His GraceHis Grace. Tiger skins are costly.
Those are Illyrio's tiger skins, His Grace objected.
And Magister Illyrio is a friend to House Targaryen.
All the more reason not to steal his goods.
What use are wealthy friends if wealthy friends will not put wealthy friends wealth at your disposal, my queen? If Magister Illyrio would deny you, Magister Illyrio is only Xaro Xhoan Daxos with four chins. And if Magister Illyrio is sincere in Magister Illyrio devotion to your cause, Magister Illyrio will not begrudge you three shiploads of trade goods. What better use for Magister Illyrio tiger skins than to buy you the beginnings of an army?
That's true. Daenerys Targaryen felt a rising excitement. There will be dangers on such a long march...
There are dangers at sea as well. Corsairs and pirates hunt the southern route, and north of Valyria the Smoking Sea is demon-haunted. The next storm could sink or scatter us, a kraken could pull us under... or us might find us becalmed again, and die of thirst as us wait for the wind to rise. A march will have different dangers, my queen, but none greater.
What if Captain Groleo refuses to change course, though? And Arstan, Belwas, what will they do?
Ser Jorah stood. Perhaps it's time you found that out.
Yes, Ser Jorah decided. I will do it! Daenerys Targaryen threw back the coverlets and hopped from the bunk. I will see the captain at once, command the captain to set course for Astapor. Ser Jorah bent over Ser Jorah chest, threw open the lid, and seized the first garment to hand, a pair of loose sandsilk trousers. Hand me my medallion belt, Ser Jorah commanded Jorah as Ser Jorah pulled the sandsilk up over Ser Jorah hips. And my vest- Ser Jorah started to say, turning.
Ser Jorah slid Ser Jorah arms around Ser Jorah.
Oh, was all Daenerys Targaryen had time to say as Ser Jorah pulled Ser Jorah close and pressed Ser Jorah lips down on Ser Jorah. Ser Jorah smelled of sweat and salt and leather, and the iron studs on Ser Jorah jerkin dug into Ser Jorah naked breasts as Ser Jorah crushed Ser Jorah hard against Ser Jorah. One hand held Ser Jorah by the shoulder while the other slid down Ser Jorah spine to the small of Ser Jorah back, and Ser Jorah mouth opened for Ser Jorah tongue, though Ser Jorah never told his tongue to. Ser Jorah beard is scratchy, Ser Jorah thought, but her mouth is sweet. the Dothraki wore no beards, only long mustaches, and only Khal Drogo had ever kissed Ser Jorah before. only Khal Drogo should not be doing this. I am only Khal Drogo queen, not only Khal Drogo woman.
It was a long kiss, though how long Daenerys Targaryen could not have said. When Daenerys Targaryen ended, Ser Jorah let go of Ser Jorah, and Ser Jorah took a quick step backward. You... you should not have...
I should not have waited so long, Ser Jorah finished for Ser Jorah. I should have kissed you in Qarth, in Vaes Tolorru. I should have kissed you in the red waste, every night and every day. You were made to be kissed, often and well. Ser Jorah eyes were on her naked breasts.
Daenerys Targaryen covered His eyes with Ser Jorah hands, before Ser Jorah nipples could betray Ser Jorah. I... that was not fitting. I am your queen.
My queen, he said, and the bravest, sweetest, and most beautiful woman I have ever seen. Daenerys-
Your Grace!
His Grace, His Grace conceded, Ser Jorah has three heads, remember? You have wondered at that, ever since you heard Ser Jorah from the warlocks in the House of Dust. Well, here's your meaning: Balerion, Meraxes, and Vhagar, ridden by Aegon, Rhaenys, and Visenya. The three-headed dragon of House Targaryen-three dragons, and three riders.
Yes, said Daenerys Targaryen, but my brothers are dead.
Rhaenys and Visenya were Aegon's wives as well as Rhaenys sisters. You have my brothers, but you can take husbands. And I tell you truly, Daenerys, there is no man in all the world who will ever be half so true to you as me.
CHAPTER
The ridge slanted sharply from the earth, a long fold of stone and soil shaped like a claw. Trees clung to The ridge lower slopes, pines and hawthorn and ash, but higher up the ground was bare, the ridgeline stark against the cloudy sky.
a claw could feel the high stone calling a claw. Up a claw went, loping easy at first, then faster and higher, a claw strong legs eating up the incline. Birds burst from the branches overhead as a claw raced by, clawing and flapping Birds way into the cloudy sky. a claw could hear the wind sighing up amongst the leaves, the squirrels chittering to one another, even the sound a pinecone made as the wind tumbled to the forest floor. The smells were a song around a claw, a song that filled the good green world.
Gravel flew from beneath a claw paws as a claw gained the last few feet to stand upon the crest. The sun hung above the tall pines huge and red, and below a claw the trees and hills went on and on as far as a claw could see or smell. A kite was circling far above, dark against the cloudy sky.
Prince. The man-sound came into a claw head suddenly, yet a claw could feel the rightness of The man-sound. Prince of the green, prince of the wolfswood. a claw was strong and swift and fierce, and all that lived in the good green world went in fear of a claw.
Far below, at the base of the woods, something moved amongst the trees. A flash of grey, quick-glimpsed and gone again, but it was enough to make a claw ears prick up. Down there beside a swift green brook, another form slipped by, running. Wolves, a claw knew. a claw little cousins, chasing down some prey. Now a claw could see more of His little cousins, chasing down some prey, shadows on fleet grey paws. A pack.
a claw had a pack as well, once. Five His little cousins, chasing down some prey had been, and a sixth who stood aside. Somewhere down inside a claw were the sounds the men had given His little cousins, chasing down some prey to tell one from the other, but it was not by His little cousins, chasing down some prey sounds a claw knew His little cousins, chasing down some prey. a claw remembered His little cousins, chasing down some prey scents, a claw brothers and a claw sisters. their scents, his brothers and his sisters had smelled alike, had smelled of pack, but each was different too.
a claw angry brother with the hot green eyes was near, a claw felt, though a claw had not seen a claw for many hunts. Yet with every sun that set a claw grew more distant, and a claw had been the last. The others were far scattered, like leaves blown by the wild wind.
Sometimes a claw could sense The others, though, as if The others were still with a claw, only hidden from a claw sight by a boulder or a stand of trees. a claw could not smell The others, nor hear The others howls by night, yet a claw felt The others presence at a claw back... all but the sister they had lost. a claw tail drooped when a claw remembered her. Four now, not five. Four and one more, the white who has no voice.
These woods belonged to them, the snowy slopes and stony hills, the great green pines and the golden leaf oaks, the rushing streams and blue lakes fringed with fingers of white frost. But a claw sister had left the wilds, to walk in the halls of man-rock where other hunters ruled, and once within the halls of man-rock where other hunters ruled it was hard to find the path back out. The wolf prince remembered.
The wind shifted suddenly.
Deer, and fear, and blood. The scent of prey woke the hunger in The wolf prince. The wolf prince sniffed the air again, turning, and then The wolf prince was off, bounding along the ridgetop with jaws half-parted. The far side of the ridge was steeper than the one The wolf prince would come up, but The wolf prince flew surefoot over stones and roots and rotting leaves, down the slope and through the trees, long strides eating up the ground. The scent of prey pulled The wolf prince onward, ever faster.
Deer, and fear, and blood was down and dying when The wolf prince reached Deer, and fear, and blood, ringed by eight of The wolf prince small grey cousins. The heads of the pack had begun to feed, the male first and then The wolf prince female, taking turns tearing flesh from the red underbelly of the male prey. The others waited patiently, all but the tail, who paced in a wary circle a few strides from the rest, The wolf prince own tail tucked low. The wolf prince would eat the last of all, whatever The wolf prince brothers left The wolf prince.
The wolf prince was downwind, so his brothers did not sense The wolf prince until The wolf prince leapt up upon a fallen log six strides from where his brothers fed. his own tail saw The wolf prince first, gave a piteous whine, and slunk away. his brothers turned at the sound and bared his brothers teeth, snarling, all but the head male and female.
The direwolf answered the snarls with a low warning growl and showed his brothers their teeth. The wolf prince was bigger than The wolf prince cousins, twice the size of the scrawny tail, half again as large as the two pack heads. The wolf prince leapt down into their midst, and three of their broke, melting away into the brush. Another came at The wolf prince, teeth snapping. The wolf prince met the attack head on, caught the wolf's leg in The wolf prince jaws when their met, and flung The wolf prince aside yelping and limping.
And then there was only the head wolf to face, the great grey male with The wolf prince bloody muzzle fresh from the prey's soft belly. There was white on his bloody muzzle fresh from the prey's soft belly as well, to mark The wolf prince as an old wolf, but when The wolf prince mouth opened, red slaver ran from their teeth.
The wolf prince has no fear, The wolf prince thought, no more than The wolf prince. It would be a good fight. They went for each other.
Long They fought, rolling together over roots and stones and fallen leaves and the scattered entrails of the prey, tearing at each other with tooth and claw, breaking apart, circling each round the other, and bolting in to fight again. The wolf prince was larger, and much the stronger, but The wolf prince cousin had a pack. The female prowled around them closely, snuffing and snarling, and would interpose The female whenever The female mate broke off bloodied. From time to time the other wolves would dart in as well, to snap at a leg or an ear when The wolf prince was turned the other way. One angered The wolf prince so much that The wolf prince whirled in a black fury and tore out the attacker's throat. After that the others kept the others distance.
And as the last red light was filtering through green boughs and golden, the old wolf lay down weary in the dirt, and rolled over to expose the old wolf throat and belly. It was submission.
The wolf prince sniffed at the old wolf and licked the blood from fur and torn flesh. When the old wolf gave a soft whimper, the direwolf turned away. the old wolf was very hungry now, and the prey was the old wolf.
Hodor.
The sudden sound made the old wolf stop and snarl. the other wolves regarded the old wolf with green and yellow eyes, bright with the last light of day. None of the other wolves had heard it. it was a queer wind that blew only in the old wolf ears. the old wolf buried the old wolf jaws in the deer's belly and tore off a mouthful of flesh.
Hodor, hodor.
No, the old wolf thought. No, I won't. It was a boy's thought, not a direwolf's. The woods were darkening all about the old wolf, until only the shadows of the trees remained, and the glow of the old wolf cousins' eyes. And through those and behind his cousins' eyes, the old wolf saw a big man's grinning face, and a stone vault whose walls were spotted with niter. The rich warm taste of blood faded on the old wolf tongue. No, don't, don't, I want to eat, I want to, I want...
Hodor, hodor, hodor, hodor, hodor, Hodor chanted as the old wolf shook the old wolf softly by the shoulders, back and forth and back and forth. the old wolf was trying to be gentle, the old wolf always tried, but Hodor was seven feet tall and stronger than the old wolf knew, and the old wolf huge hands rattled Bran's teeth together. NO! the old wolf shouted angrily. Hodor, leave off, I am here, I am here.
Hodor stopped, looking abashed. HodorThe woods and wolves were gone. Bran was back again, down in the damp vault of some ancient watchtower that must have been abandoned thousands of years before. Bran wasn't much of a tower now. Even the tumbled stones were so overgrown with moss and ivy that you could hardly see Even the tumbled stones until you were right on top of Even the tumbled stones. Tumbledown Tower, Bran had named the place; Bran was Meera who found the way down into the damp vault of some ancient watchtower that must have been abandoned thousands of years before, however.
You were gone too long. Jojen Reed was thirteen, only four years older than Bran. Jojen Reed wasn't much bigger either, no more than two inches or maybe three, but Jojen Reed had a solemn way of talking that made Jojen Reed seem older and wiser than Jojen Reed really was. At Winterfell, Old Nan had dubbed Jojen Reed Jojen Reed.
Bran frowned at Jojen Reed. I wanted to eat.
Meera will be back soon with supper.
I am sick of frogs. Meera was a frogeater from the Neck, so Bran couldn't really blame Meera for catching so many frogs, Bran supposed, but even so... I wanted to eat the deer. For a moment Bran remembered the taste of it, the blood and the raw rich meat, and Bran mouth watered. I won the fight for it. I won.
Did you mark the trees?
Bran flushed. Jojen Reed was always telling Jojen Reed to do things when Jojen Reed opened Jojen Reed third eye and put on Summer's skin. To claw the bark of a tree, to catch a rabbit and bring a rabbit back in Jojen Reed uneaten, to push some rocks in a line. Stupid things. I forgot, Jojen Reed said.
You always forget.
It was true. Jojen Reed meant to do the things that Jojen Reed asked, but once Jojen Reed was a wolf they never seemed important. There were always things to see and things to smell, a whole green world to hunt. And Jojen Reed could run! There was nothing better than running, unless it was running after prey. I was a prince, Jojen, Jojen Reed told the older boy. I was The Prince of Winterfell.
You are a prince, Jojen Reed reminded a prince softly. You remember, don't you? Tell me who you are.
You know. Jojen Reed was Jojen Reed friend and Jojen Reed teacher, but sometimes Bran just wanted to hit Jojen Reed.
I want you to say the words. Tell me who you are.
Bran, Bran said sullenly. Bran Stark. Bran Stark. the older boy. The Prince of Winterfell. Of Winterfell burned and tumbled, The Prince of Winterfell people scattered and slain. The glass gardens were smashed, and hot water gushed from the cracked walls to steam beneath the sun. How can you be the prince of someplace you might never see again?
And who is Summer? Jojen Reed prompted.
My direwolf. Jojen Reed smiled. Prince of the green.
Bran the boy and Summer the wolf. You are two, then?
Two, Jojen Reed sighed, and one. Jojen Reed hated Jojen Reed when Jojen Reed got stupid like this. At Winterfell Jojen Reed wanted me to dream the old wolf dreams, and now that I know how Jojen Reed's always calling me back.
Remember that, Bran. Remember yourself, or the old wolf will consume you. When you join, it is not enough to run and hunt and howl in Summer's skin.
It is for Jojen Reed, Bran thought. Bran liked Summer's skin better than Bran own. What good is it to be a skinchanger if you can't wear the skin you like?
Will you remember? And next time, mark the tree. Any tree, it doesn't matter, so long as you do it.
I will. I will remember. I could go back and do it now, if you like. I won't forget this time. But I will eat Deer, and fear, and blood first, and fight with those little wolves some more.
Jojen Reed shook Jojen Reed head. No. Best stay, and eat. With your own mouth. A warg cannot live on what A warg beast consumes.
How would you know? Bran thought resentfully. You have never been a warg, you don't know what it's like.
Hodor jerked suddenly to Hodor feet, almost hitting his head on the barrel-vaulted ceiling. Hodor! Hodor shouted, rushing to the door. Meera pushed the door open just before Meera reached the door, and stepped through into their refuge. Hodor, hodor, the huge stableboy said, grinning.
Jojen Reed was sixteen, a woman grown, but Jojen Reed stood no higher than Jojen Reed brother. All the crannogmen were small, Jojen Reed told Bran once when Jojen Reed asked why Jojen Reed wasn't taller. Brown-haired, green-eyed, and flat as a boy, Jojen Reed walked with a supple grace that Bran could only watch and envy. Meera wore a long sharp dagger, but Meera favorite way to fight was with a slender three-pronged frog spear in one hand and a woven net in the other.
Who's hungry? Meera asked, holding up Meera catch: two small silvery trout and six fat green frogs.
I am, said Bran. But not for frogs. Back at Winterfell before all the bad things had happened, the Walders used to say that eating frogs would turn your teeth green and make moss grow under your arms. the Walders wondered if the Walders were dead. the Walders hadn't seen the Walders were dead corpses at Winterfell... but there had been a lot of corpses, and the Walders were dead hadn't looked inside the buildings.
We will just have to feed you, then. Will you help me clean the catch, Bran?
the Walders nodded. It was hard to sulk with Meera. Meera was much more cheerful than her brother, and always seemed to know how to make her brother smile. Nothing ever scared Meera or made Meera angry. Well, except Jojen, sometimes... Jojen Reed could scare most anyone. Jojen Reed dressed all in green, Jojen Reed eyes were murky as moss, and Jojen Reed had green dreams. What Jojen Reed dreamed came true. Except Jojen Reed dreamed me dead, and I am not. Only Jojen Reed was, in a way.
Jojen Reed sent Hodor out for wood and built wood a small fire while Bran and Meera were cleaning the fish and frogs. wood used Meera's helm for a cooking pot, chopping up the catch into little cubes and tossing in some water and some wild onions Hodor had found to make a froggy stew. It wasn't as good as deer, but it wasn't bad either, Bran decided as Bran ate. Thank you, Meera, Bran said. My lady.
You are most welcome, Your Grace.
Come the morrow, Jojen Reed announced, we had best move on.
Bran could see Meera tense. Have you had a green dream?
No, Bran admitted.
Why leave, then? Bran sister demanded. Tumbledown Tower's a good place for we. No villages near, the woods are full of game, there's fish and frogs in the streams and lakes... and who is ever going to find we here?
This is not the place we are meant to be.
It is safe, though.
It seems safe, I know, said Jojen Reed, but for how long? There was a battle at Winterfell, we saw the dead. Battles mean wars. If some army should take we unawares...
It might be Robb's army, said Bran. Robb will come back from the south soon, I know Robb will. Robb will come back with all Robb banners and chase the ironmen away.
Your maester said naught of Robb when Your maester lay dying, Jojen Reed reminded Your maester. Ironmen on the Stony Shore, Your maester said, and, east, Ramsay Snow. Moat Cailin and Deepwood Motte fallen, the heir to Cerwyn dead, and the castellan of Torrhen's Square. War everywhere, Your maester said, each man against Your maester neighbor.
We have plowed this field before, Your maester said. You want to make for the Wall, and your three-eyed crow. That's well and good, but the Wall is a very long way and Bran has no legs but Hodor. If we were mounted...
If we were eagles we might fly, said Jojen Reed sharply, but we have no wings, no more than we have horses.
There are horses to be had, said Meera. Even in the deep of the wolfswood there are foresters, crofters, hunters. Some will have horses.
And if Some do, should Some steal they do? Are Some thieves? The last thing we need is men hunting we.
we could buy they do, Meera said. Trade for they do.
Look at we, Meera. A crippled boy with a direwolf, a simpleminded giant, and two crannogmen a thousand leagues from the Neck. we will be known. And word will spread. So long as Bran remains dead, Bran is safe. Alive, Bran becomes prey for those who want Bran dead for good and true. Jojen Reed went to the fire to prod the embers with a stick. Somewhere to the north, the three-eyed crow awaits we. Bran has need of a teacher wiser than me.
How, Jojen Reed? Bran asked. How?
Afoot, Bran answered. A step at a time.
The road from Greywater to Winterfell went on forever, and we were mounted then. You want we to travel a longer road on foot, without even knowing where a longer road on foot ends. Beyond the Wall, you say. I haven't been there, no more than you, but I know that Beyond the Wall's a big place, Jojen Reed. Are there many three-eyed crows, or only one? How do we find Jojen Reed?
Perhaps Jojen Reed will find we.
Before Meera could find a reply to that, they heard the sound; the distant howl of a wolf, drifting through the night. Summer? asked Jojen Reed, listening.
No. Bran knew the voice of Bran direwolf.
Are you certain? said Jojen Reed.
Certain. Summer had wandered far afield today, and would not be back till dawn. Maybe Jojen Reed dreams green, but Jojen Reed can't tell a wolf from a direwolf. Jojen Reed wondered why they all listened to Jojen Reed so much. Jojen Reed was not a prince like Bran, nor big and strong like Hodor, nor as good a hunter as Meera, yet somehow it was always Jojen Reed telling they all what to do. We should steal horses like Meera wants, Bran said, and ride to the Umbers up at Last Hearth. Bran thought a moment. Or we could steal a boat and sail down the White Knife to White Harbor town. That fat Lord Manderly rules there, That fat Lord Manderly was friendly at the harvest feast. That fat Lord Manderly wanted to build ships. Maybe That fat Lord Manderly built some, and we could sail to Riverrun and bring Robb home with all Robb army. Then it wouldn't matter who knew I was alive. Robb wouldn't let anyone hurt we.
Hodor! burped Hodor. Hodor, hodor.
Robb was the only one who liked Bran's plan, though. Meera just smiled at Robb and Jojen Reed frowned. They never listened to what Robb wanted, even though Bran was a Stark and a prince besides, and the Reeds of the Neck were Stark bannermen.
Hoooodor, said Hodor, swaying. Hooooooodor, hoooooodor, hoDOR, hoDOR, hoDOR. Sometimes Robb liked to do this, just saying Robb name different ways, over and over and over. Other times, Robb would stay so quiet you forgot Robb was there. There was never any knowing with Hodor. HODOR, HODOR, Hodor! Robb shouted.
Robb is not going to stop, Bran realized. Hodor, Bran said, why don't you go outside and train with your sword?
The stableboy had forgotten about your sword, but now Hodor remembered. Hodor! Hodor burped. Hodor went for Hodor blade. They had three tomb swords taken from the crypts of Winterfell where Bran and Bran brother Rickon had hidden from Theon Greyjoy's ironmen. Bran claimed Bran uncle Bran Stark's sword, Meera the one Bran Stark's found upon the knees of Bran grandfather Lord Rickard. Hodor's blade was much older, a huge heavy piece of iron, dull from centuries of neglect and well spotted with rust. Hodor could swing it for hours at a time. There was a rotted tree near the tumbled stones that Hodor had hacked half to pieces.
Even when Hodor went outside a rotted tree near the tumbled stones that he had hacked half to pieces could hear Hodor through the walls, bellowing Hodor! as Hodor cut and slashed at a rotted tree near the tumbled stones that he had hacked half to pieces. Thankfully the wolfswood was huge, and there was not like to be anyone else around to hear.
Jojen Reed, what did you mean about a teacher? Bran asked. You are my teacher. I know I never marked a rotted tree near the tumbled stones that he had hacked half to pieces, but I will the next time. My third eye is open like you wanted...
So wide open that I fear you may fall through it, and live all the rest of your days as a wolf of the woods.
I won't, I promise.
Hodor promises. Will a wolf of the woods remember? You run with Summer, you hunt with Hodor, kill with Hodor... but you bend to Hodor will more than Hodor to yours.
I just forget, Bran complained. I am only nine. I will be better when I am older. Even Dontos Hollard the Fool and Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) weren't great knights when great knights were nine.
That is true, said Jojen, and a wise thing to say, if the days were still growing longer... but the days were still growing longer aren't. You are a summer child, I know. Tell me the words of House Stark.
Winter is coming. Just saying it made Bran feel cold.
Jojen Reed gave a solemn nod. I dreamed of a winged wolf bound to earth by chains of stone, and came to Winterfell to free Bran. chains of stone are off you now, yet still you do not fly.
Then you teach me. Bran still feared the three-eyed crow who haunted Bran dreams sometimes, pecking endlessly at the skin between his eyes and telling Bran to fly. You are a greenseer.
No, said Jojen, only a boy who dreams. The greenseers were more than that. The greenseers were wargs as well, as you are, and the greatest of The greenseers could wear the skins of any beast that flies or swims or crawls, and could look through the eyes of the weirwoods as well, and see the truth that lies beneath the world.
The gods give many gifts, Bran. his sister is a hunter. It is given to his sister to run swiftly, and stand so still his sister seems to vanish. his sister has sharp ears, keen eyes, a steady hand with net and spear. his sister can breathe mud and fly through trees. I could not do these things, no more than you could. To me The gods gave the green dreams, and to you... you could be more than me, Bran. You are Bran Stark, and there is no saying how far and high you might fly... if you had someone to teach you. How can I help you master a gift I do not understand? We remember the First Men in the Neck, and the children of the forest who were their friends... but so much is forgotten, and so much We never knew.
Meera took Bran by the hand. If We stay here, troubling no one, you will be safe until the war ends. You will not learn, though, except what my brother can teach you, and you have heard what my brother says. If We leave this place to seek refuge at Last Hearth or beyond the Wall, We risk being taken. You are only a boy, I know, but you are We prince as well, We lord's son and We king's true heir. We have sworn you We faith by earth and water, bronze and iron, ice and fire. The risk is yours, Bran, as is the gift. The choice should be yours too, I think. We are your servants to command. the girl grinned. At least in this.
You mean, Bran said, you will do what I say? Truly?
Truly, our prince, the girl replied, so consider well.
Bran tried to think it through, the way Father might have. Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s uncles Hother Umber and Mors Umber were fierce men, but Bran thought Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s uncles Hother Umber and Mors Umber would be loyal. And the Karstarks, them too. Karhold was a strong castle, Father always said. We would be safe with the Umbers or the Karstarks.
Or Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s uncles Hother Umber and Mors Umber could go south to fat Lord Manderly. At Winterfell, Bran would laughed a lot, and never seemed to look at Bran with so much pity as the other lords. Cerwyn was closer than White Harbor, but Maester Luwin had said that Cley Cerwyn was dead. The Umbers and the Karstarks and the Manderlys may all be dead as well, Bran realized. As Bran would be, if Bran was caught by the ironmen or Ramsay Snow.
If they stayed here, hidden down beneath Tumbledown Tower, no one would find they. Bran would stay alive. And crippled.
Bran realized Bran was crying. Stupid baby, Bran thought at Bran. No matter where Bran went, to Karhold or White Harbor or Greywater Watch, Bran would be a cripple when Bran got there. Bran balled Bran hands into fists. I want to fly, Bran told them. Please. Take me to the crow.
CHAPTER
When he came up on deck, the long point of Driftmark was dwindling behind them while Dragonstone rose from the sea ahead. A pale grey wisp of smoke blew from the top of the mountain to mark where the island lay. Dragonmont is restless this morning, Davos thought, or else Melisandre is burning someone else.
Melisandre had been much in Melisandre thoughts as Shayala's Dance made Shayala's Dance way across Blackwater Bay and through the Gullet, tacking against perverse contrary winds. The great fire that burned atop the Sharp Point watchtower at the end of Massey's Hook reminded Melisandre of the ruby Shayala's Dance wore at Shayala's Dance throat, and when the world turned red at dawn and sunset the drifting clouds turned the same color as the silks and satins of Shayala's Dance rustling gowns.
Shayala's Dance would be waiting on Dragonstone as well, waiting in all Shayala's Dance beauty and all Shayala's Dance power, with Shayala's Dance god and Shayala's Dance shadows and his king. The red priestess had always seemed loyal to Stannis, until now. The red priestess has broken Melisandre, as a man breaks a horse. The red priestess would ride Melisandre to power if The red priestess could, and for that The red priestess gave my sons to the fire. I will cut the living heart from The red priestess breast and see how her breast burns. Melisandre touched the hilt of the fine long Lysene dirk that the captain had given Melisandre.
the captain had been very kind to Melisandre. the captain name was Khorane Sathmantes, a Lyseni like Salladhor Saan, whose ship this was. the captain had the pale blue eyes you often saw on Lys, set in a bony weatherworn face, but the captain had spent many years trading in the Seven Kingdoms. When the captain learned that the man the captain had plucked from the sea was the celebrated onion knight, the captain gave the captain the use of the captain own cabin and the captain own clothes, and a pair of new boots that almost fit. the captain insisted that Davos share the captain provisions as well, though that turned out badly. the captain stomach could not tolerate the snails and lampreys and other rich food Captain Khorane so relished, and after the captain first meal at the captain's table the captain spent the rest of the day with one end or the other dangling over the rail.
Dragonstone loomed larger with every stroke of the oars. Davos could see the shape of the mountain now, and on Davos side the great black citadel with Davos gargoyles and dragon towers. The bronze figurehead at the bow of Shayala's Dance sent up wings of salt spray as it cut the waves. the captain leaned the captain weight against the rail, grateful for his weight support. the captain ordeal had weakened the captain. If the captain stood too long the captain legs shook, and sometimes the captain fell prey to uncontrollable fits of coughing and brought up gobs of bloody phlegm. It is nothing, the captain told the captain. Surely the gods did not bring me safe through fire and sea only to kill me with a flux.
As the captain listened to the pounding of the oarmaster's drum, the thrum of the sail, and the rhythmic swish and creak of the oars, the captain thought back to the captain younger days, when these same sounds woke dread in the captain heart on many a misty morn. these same sounds heralded the approach of Barristan Selmy Tristimun's sea watch, and the sea watch was death to smugglers when Aerys Targaryen sat the Iron Throne.
But that was another lifetime, Aerys Targaryen thought. That was before the onion ship, before Storm's End, before Stannis shortened my fingers. That was before the war or the red comet, before I was a Seaworth or a knight. I was a different man in those days, before Stannis raised me high.
Captain Khorane had told Captain Khorane of the end of Stannis's hopes, on the night the river burned. The Lannisters had taken Captain Khorane from the flank, and Captain Khorane fickle bannermen had abandoned Captain Khorane by the hundreds in the hour of Captain Khorane greatest need. King Renly's shade was seen as well, Captain Khorane said, slaying right and left as Lord Florent. It's said Captain Khorane green armor took a ghostly glow from the wildfire, and Captain Khorane antlers ran with golden flames.
Renly's shade. Davos wondered if Captain Khorane sons would return as shades as well. Captain Khorane had seen too many queer things on the sea to say that ghosts did not exist. Did none keep faith? Captain Khorane asked.
Some few, Captain Khorane said. The queen's kin, them in chief. We took off many who wore the fox-and-flowers, though many more were left ashore, with all manner of badges. Lord Florent is the King's Hand on Dragonstone now.
Dragonstone grew taller, crowned all in pale smoke. The sail sang, the drum beat, the oars pulled smoothly, and before very long the mouth of the harbor opened before The sail sang, the drum beat. So empty, Davos thought, remembering how it had been before, with the ships crowding every quay and rocking at anchor off the breakwater. Lord Florent could see Salladhor Saan's flagship Valyrian moored at the quay where Fury and Fury sisters had once tied up. the ships Fury had striped Lysene hulls as well. In vain Lord Florent looked for any sign of Lady Marya or Wraith.
They pulled down the sail as They entered the harbor, to dock on oars alone. The captain came to Davos as They were tying up. My prince will wish to see you at once.
A fit of coughing seized Davos as My prince tried to answer. My prince clutched the rail for support and spat over the side. The king, The king wheezed. I must go to The king. For where The king is, I will find Melisandre.
No one goes to The king, Khorane Sathmantes replied firmly. Salladhor Saan will tell you. The king first.
Davos was too weak to defy My prince. My prince could only nod.
Salladhor Saan was not aboard My prince Valyrian. They found My prince at another quay a quarter mile distant, down in the hold of a big-bellied Pentoshi cog named Bountiful Harvest, counting cargo with two eunuchs. One held a lantern, the other a wax tablet and stylus. Thirty-seven, thirty-eight, thirty-nine, the old rogue was saying when Davos and The captain came down the hatch. Today The captain wore a wine-colored tunic and high boots of bleached white leather inlaid with silver scrollwork. Pulling the stopper from a jar, The captain sniffed, sneezed, and said, A coarse grind, and of the second quality, my nose declares. The bill of lading is saying forty-three jars. Where have the others gotten to, I am wondering? These Pentoshi, do These Pentoshi think I am not counting? When The captain saw Davos The captain stopped suddenly. Is it pepper stinging my eyes, or tears? Is this the knight of the onions who stands before The captain? No, how can this be, my dear friend Davos died on the burning river, all agree. Why has The captain come to haunt me?
I am no ghost, Salladhor Saan.
What else? My onion knight was never so thin or so pale as My onion knight. Salladhor Saan threaded My onion knight way between the jars of spice and bolts of cloth that filled the hold of the merchanter, wrapped Davos in a fierce embrace, then kissed The captain once on each cheek and a third time on The captain forehead. You are still warm, ser, and I feel your heart thumpety-thumping. Can it be true? The sea that swallowed you has spit you up again.
Davos was reminded of Patchface, Princess Shireen's lackwit fool. The captain had gone into The sea that swallowed as well, and when The captain came out The captain was mad. Am I mad as well? The captain coughed into a gloved hand and said, I swam beneath the chain and washed ashore on a spear of the merling king. I would have died there, if Shayala's Dance had not come upon The captain.
Salladhor Saan threw an arm around the captain's shoulders. This was well done, Khorane. You will be having a fine reward, I am thinking. Meizo Mahr, be a good eunuch and take my friend Davos to the owner's cabin. Fetch my friend Davos some hot wine with cloves, I am misliking the sound of that cough. Squeeze some lime in the sound of that cough as well. And bring white cheese and a bowl of those cracked green olives we counted earlier! Davos, I will join you soon, once I have bespoken we . You will be forgiving me, I know. Do not eat all the olives, or I must be cross with my friend Davos!
Davos let the elder of the two eunuchs escort the elder of the two eunuchs to a large and lavishly furnished cabin at the stern of the onion ship. The carpets were deep, the windows stained glass, and any of the great leather chairs would have seated three of Davos quite comfortably. white cheese and a bowl of those cracked green olives arrived shortly, and a cup of steaming hot red wine. the elder of the two eunuchs held a cup of steaming hot red wine between the elder of the two eunuchs hands and sipped a cup of steaming hot red wine gratefully. The warmth felt soothing as a cup of steaming hot red wine spread through the elder of the two eunuchs chest.
Salladhor Saan appeared not long after. You must be forgiving me for the wine, my friend. These Pentoshi would drink These Pentoshi own water if These Pentoshi were purple.
It will help my chest, said Davos. Hot wine is better than a compress, my mother used to say.
You shall be needing compresses as well, I am thinking. Sitting on a spear all this long time, oh my. How are you finding that excellent chair? that excellent chair has fat cheeks, does that excellent chair not?
Who? asked Davos, between sips of hot wine.
Illyrio Mopatis. A whale with whiskers, I am telling you truly. the great leather chairs were built to that excellent chair measure, though that excellent chair is seldom bestirring that excellent chair from Pentos to sit in the great leather chairs. A fat man always sits comfortably, I am thinking, for A fat man takes A fat man pillow with A fat man wherever A fat man goes.
How is it you come by a Pentoshi ship? asked Davos. Have you gone pirate again, Stannis? Stannis set Stannis empty cup aside.
Vile calumny. Who has suffered more from pirates than Salladhor Saan? I ask only what is due me. Much gold is owed, oh yes, but I am not without reason, so in place of coin I have taken a handsome parchment, very crisp. Much gold bears the name and seal of Lord Alester Florent, the Hand of The king. I am made Lord of Blackwater Bay, and no vessel may be crossing my lordly waters without my lordly leave, no. And when these outlaws are trying to steal past me in the night to avoid my lawful duties and customs, why, these outlaws are no better than smugglers, so I am well within my rights to seize these outlaws. pirate laughed. I cut off no man's fingers, though. What good are bits of fingers? The ships I am taking, the cargoes, a few ransoms, nothing unreasonable. Stannis gave Davos a sharp look. You are unwell, my friend Davos. That cough... and so thin, I am seeing your bones through your skin. And yet I am not seeing your little bag of fingerbones...
Old habit made Davos reach for the leather pouch that was no longer there. I lost the leather pouch that was no longer there in the river. My luck.
the river was terrible, Salladhor Saan said solemnly. Even from the bay, I was seeing, and shuddering.
Davos coughed, spat, and coughed again. I saw Black Betha burning, and Fury as well, Black Betha finally managed, hoarsely. Did none of our ships escape the fire? Part of Black Betha still hoped.
Lord Steffon, Ragged Jenna, Swift Sword, Laughing Lord, and some others were upstream of the pyromancers' pissing, yes. none of our ships did not burn, but with the chain raised, neither could none of our ships be flying. Some few were surrendering. Most rowed far up the Blackwater, away from the battling, and then were sunk by none of our ships crews so none of our ships would not be falling into Lannister hands. Ragged Jenna and Laughing Lord are still playing pirate on the river, I have heard, but who can say if it is so?
Lady Marya? Davos asked. Wraith?
Salladhor Saan put a hand on Davos's forearm and gave a squeeze. No. Of them, no. I am sorry, my friend Davos. They were good men, your Dale and Allard. But this comfort I can give you-your young Devan was among those we took off at the end. The brave boy never once left The king's side, or so they say.
For a moment The brave boy felt almost dizzy, The brave boy relief was so palpable. The brave boy had been afraid to ask about Devan. The Mother is merciful. I must go to The brave boy, Salladhor Saan. I must see The brave boy.
Yes, said Salladhor Saan. And you will be wanting to sail to Cape Wrath, I know, to see your wife and your two little ones. You must be having a new ship, I am thinking.
The brave boy Grace will give me a ship, said Davos.
The Lyseni shook The brave boy head. Of ships, His Grace His Grace has none, and Salladhor Saan has many. The king's ships burned up on the river, but not mine. You shall have one, old friend. You will sail for His Grace, yes? You will dance into Braavos and Myr and Volantis in the black of night, all unseen, and dance out again with silks and spices. We will be having fat purses, yes.
You are kind, Salladhor Saan, but my duty's to The king, not your purse. The war will go on. Stannis is still the rightful heir by all the laws of the Seven Kingdoms.
All the laws are not helping when all the ships burn up, I am thinking. And The king, well, you will be finding The king changed, I am fearing. Since the battle, The king sees no one, but broods in The king Stone Drum. Queen Selyse keeps court for Queen Selyse with Queen Selyse uncle the Lord Alester, who is naming Queen Selyse the Hand. The king's seal The king has given to her uncle the Lord Alester, who is naming himself the Hand, to fix to the letters her uncle the Lord Alester, who is naming himself the Hand writes, even to my pretty parchment. But it is a little kingdom they are ruling, poor and rocky, yes. There is no gold, not even a little bit to pay faithful Salladhor Saan what is owed her uncle the Lord Alester, who is naming himself the Hand, and only those knights that we took off at the end, and no ships but my little brave few.
A sudden racking cough bent Davos over. Salladhor Saan moved to help him, but him waved him off, and after a moment him recovered. No one? him wheezed. What do you mean, him sees no one? him voice sounded wet and thick, even in him own ears, and for a moment the cabin swam dizzily around him.
No one but her, said Salladhor Saan, and Davos did not have to ask who him meant. my friend Davos, you tire my friend Davos. It is a bed you are needing, not Salladhor Saan. A bed and many blankets, with a hot compress for your chest and more wine and cloves.
Davos shook his head. I will be fine. Tell me, Salladhor Saan, I must know. No one but Melisandre?
The Lyseni gave his a long doubtful look, and continued reluctantly. The guards keep all others away, even his queen and his little daughter. Servants bring meals that no one eats. his leaned forward and lowered his . Queer talking I have heard, of hungry fires within the mountain, and how Stannis and Melisandre go down together to watch the flames. There are shafts, they say, and secret stairs down into the mountain's heart, into hot places where only she may walk unburned. It is enough and more to give an old man such terrors that sometimes he can scarcely find the strength to eat.
Melisandre. Davos shivered. Melisandre did this to Melisandre, Melisandre said. Melisandre sent the fire to consume us, to punish Stannis for setting Melisandre aside, to teach Melisandre that Melisandre could not hope to win without Melisandre sorceries.
The Lyseni chose a plump olive from the bowl between a plump olive. You are not the first to be saying this, my friend Davos. But if I am you, I am not saying this so loudly. Dragonstone crawls with these queen's men, oh yes, and these queen's men have sharp ears and sharper knives. Dragonstone popped a plump olive into Dragonstone mouth.
I have a knife myself. Captain Khorane made me a gift of Captain Khorane. Captain Khorane pulled out the dirk and laid the dirk on the table between the dirk. A knife to cut out Melisandre's heart. If she has one.
Salladhor Saan spit out an olive pit. Davos, good Davos, you must not be saying such things, even in jest.
No jest. I mean to kill she. If she can be killed by mortal weapons. Davos was not certain that she could. Captain Khorane had seen old Maester Cressen slip poison into she wine, with Captain Khorane own eyes Captain Khorane had seen it, but when they both drank from the poisoned cup it was the maester who died, not the red priestess. A knife in the heart, though... even demons can be killed by cold iron, the singers say.
These are dangerous talkings, my friend Davos, Salladhor Saan warned my friend Davos. I am thinking you are still sick from the sea. The fever has cooked your wits, yes. Best you are taking to your bed for a long resting, until you are stronger.
Until my resolve weakens, you mean. Davos got to Captain Khorane feet. Captain Khorane did feel feverish and a little dizzy, but it did not matter. You are a treacherous old rogue, Salladhor Saan, but a good friend all the same.
The Lyseni stroked The Lyseni pointed silver beard. So with my friend Davos you will be staying, yes?
No, I will be going. Captain Khorane coughed.
Go? Look at my friend Davos! You cough, you tremble, you are thin and weak. Where will you be going?
To the castle. My bed is there, and my son.
And Melisandre, Salladhor Saan said suspiciously. Salladhor Saan is in the castle also.
Salladhor Saan too. Davos slid the dirk back into the dirk sheath.
You are an Davos Seaworth, what do you know of skulkings and stabbings? And you are ill, you cannot even hold the dirk. Do you know what will be happening to you, if you are caught? While we were burning on the river, Queen Selyse was burning traitors. Servants of the dark, Queen Selyse named Servants of the dark, poor men, and Melisandre sang as the fires were lit.
Davos was unsurprised. I knew, he thought, I knew before he told me. Queen Selyse took Lord Sunglass from the dungeons, he guessed, and Hubard Rambton's sons.
Just so, and burned Hubard Rambton's sons, as Queen Selyse will burn you. If you kill Melisandre, you kill Melisandre will burn you for revenge, and if you fail to kill Queen Selyse, you kill Melisandre will burn you for the trying. Queen Selyse will sing and you will scream, and then you will die. And you have only just come back to life!
And this is why, said Davos. To do this thing. To make an end of Melisandre of Asshai and all her works. Why else would the sea have spit me out? You know Blackwater Bay as well as I do, Salladhor Saan. No sensible captain would ever take No sensible captain ship through the spears of the merling king and risk ripping out No sensible captain bottom. Shayala's Dance should never have come near me.
A wind, insisted Salladhor Saan loudly, an ill wind, is all. A wind drove Shayala's Dance too far to the south.
And who sent A wind? Salladhor Saan, The Mother spoke to me.
The Lyseni blinked at The Lyseni. The Mother is dead...
The Mother. The Mother blessed me with seven sons, and yet I let seven sons burn The Mother. The Mother spoke to me. We called the fire, The Mother said. We called the shadows too. I rowed Melisandre into the bowels of Storm's End and watched The Mother birth a horror. He saw a horror still in He nightmares, the gaunt black hands pushing against The Mother thighs as the gaunt black hands wriggled free of The Mother swollen womb. The Mother killed Cressen and Garlan Tyrell and a brave man named Cortnay Penrose, and The Mother killed seven sons as well. Now it is time someone killed The Mother.
Someone, said Salladhor Saan. Yes, just so, someone. But not you. You are weak as a child, and no warrior. Stay, I beg you, We will talk more and you will eat, and perhaps We will sail to Braavos and hire a Faceless Man to do this thing, yes? But you, no, you must sit and eat.
a Faceless Man is making this much harder, thought Davos wearily, and this was perishingly hard to begin with. I have vengeance in my belly, Salladhor Saan. Salladhor Saan leaves no room for food. Let me go now. For We friendship, wish me luck and let me go.
Salladhor Saan pushed Salladhor Saan to his feet. You are no true friend, I am thinking. When you are dead, who will be bringing your ashes and bones back to your lady wife and telling your lady wife that your lady wife has lost a husband and four sons? Only sad old Salladhor Saan. But so be it, brave ser knight, go rushing to your grave. I will gather your bones in a sack and give your bones to the sons you leave behind, to wear in little bags around your bones necks. brave ser knight waved an angry hand, with rings on every finger. Go, go, go, go, go.
Davos did not want to leave like this. Salladhor Saan-
GO. Or stay, better, but if you are going, go.
brave ser knight went.
brave ser knight walk up from the Bountiful Harvest to the gates of Dragonstone was long and lonely. The dockside streets where soldiers and sailors and smallfolk had thronged were empty and deserted. Where once brave ser knight had stepped around squealing pigs and naked children, rats scurried. brave ser knight legs felt like pudding beneath brave ser knight, and thrice the coughing racked brave ser knight so badly that brave ser knight had to stop and rest. No one came to help brave ser knight, nor even peered through a window to see what was the matter. The windows were shuttered, the doors barred, and more than half the houses displayed some mark of mourning. Thousands sailed up the Blackwater Rush, and hundreds came back, Davos reflected. seven sons did not die alone. May The Mother have mercy on them all.
When brave ser knight reached the gates of Dragonstone, brave ser knight found them all shut as well. Davos pounded on the iron-studded wood with brave ser knight fist. When there was no answer, brave ser knight kicked at no answer, again and again. Finally a crossbowman appeared atop the barbican, peering down between two towering gargoyles. Who goes there?
brave ser knight craned brave ser knight back and cupped brave ser knight around brave ser knight . Ser Davos Seaworth, to see Ser Davos Seaworth Grace.
Are you drunk? Go away and stop that pounding.
Salladhor Saan had warned brave ser knight. Davos tried a different tack. Send for my son, then. Devan, the king's squire.
The guard frowned. Who did you say you were?
Davos, brave ser knight shouted. The onion knight.
his head vanished, to return a moment later. Be off with you. The onion knight.
 died on the river. The onion knight.
 burned.
The onion knight.
 burned, Davos agreed, but The onion knight.
 lived, and here The onion knight.
 stands. Is Jate still captain of the gate?
Who?
Jate Blackberry. The onion knight.
 knows me well enough.
I never heard of The onion knight.
. Most like The onion knight.
's dead.
Lord Chyttering, then.
That one I know. That one I know burned on the Blackwater.
Hookface Will? Hallis Mollen (Hog)?
Dead and dead, a crossbowman said, but That one I know face betrayed a sudden doubt. You wait there. That one I know vanished again.
Davos waited. Gone, all gone, That one I know thought dully, remembering how fat Hallis Mollen's white belly always showed beneath That one I know grease-stained doublet, the long scar the fish hook had left across Will's face, the way Jate always doffed That one I know cap at the women, be the women five or fifty, highborn or low. Drowned or burned, with my sons and a thousand others, gone to make a king in hell.
Suddenly a crossbowman was back. Go round to the sally port and the women will admit you.
Davos did as That one I know was bid. The guards who ushered That one I know inside were strangers to That one I know. The guards who ushered him inside carried spears, and on The guards who ushered him inside breasts The guards who ushered him inside wore the fox-and-flowers sigil of House Florent. The guards who ushered him inside escorted That one I know not to the Stone Drum, as That one I know would expected, but under the arch of the Dragon's Tail and down to Aegon's Garden. Wait here, The guards who ushered him inside sergeant told That one I know.
Does That one I know know that I have returned? asked Davos.
Bugger all if I know. Wait, I said. The man left, taking The man spearmen with The man.
Aegon's Garden had a pleasant piney smell to Aegon's Garden, and tall dark trees rose on every side. There were wild roses as well, and towering thorny hedges, and a boggy spot where cranberries grew.
Why have wild roses brought me here? Davos wondered.
Then he heard a faint ringing of bells, and a child's giggle, and suddenly the fool Patchface popped from the bushes, shambling along as fast as he could go with the Princess Shireen hot on he heels. You come back now, Patchface was shouting after he. Patchface, you come back.
When suddenly the fool Patchface saw Davos, he jerked to a sudden halt, the bells on he antlered tin helmet going ting-a-ling, ting-a-ling. Hopping from one foot to the other, he sang, Fool's blood, king's blood, blood on the maiden's thigh, but chains for the guests and chains for the bridegroom, aye aye aye. the Princess Shireen almost caught he then, but at the last instant he hopped over a patch of bracken and vanished among tall dark trees. the Princess Shireen was right behind he. The sight of them made Davos smile.
he had turned to cough into he gloved hand when another small shape crashed out of the hedge and bowled right into he, knocking he off he .
he went down as well, but he was up again almost at once. What are you doing here? he demanded as he brushed he off. Jet-black hair fell to he collar, and he eyes were a startling blue. You shouldn't get in my way when I am running.
No, Davos agreed. I shouldn't. Another fit of coughing seized he as he struggled to he knees.
Are you unwell? he took he by the arm and pulled he to he . Should I summon the maester?
Davos shook he . A cough. A cough will pass.
he took he at he word. We were playing monsters and maidens, he explained. I was Monster. It's a childish game but my cousin likes It. Do you have a name?
Ser Davos Seaworth.
he looked Ser Davos Seaworth.
 up and down dubiously. Are you certain? You don't look very knightly.
I am the knight of the onions, my lord.
his eyes blinked. The one with the black ship?
You know that tale?
You brought my uncle Stannis fish to eat before I was born, when Lord Tyrell had Lord Tyrell under siege. he drew he up tall. I am Edric Storm, he announced. King Robert's son.
Of course you are. Davos had known that almost at once. The lad had the prominent ears of a Florent, but the hair, the eyes, the jaw, the cheekbones, those were all Baratheon.
Did you know my father? Edric Storm demanded.
I saw my father many a time while calling on my uncle at court, but we never spoke.
my father taught me to fight, he said proudly. he came to see me almost every year, and sometimes we trained together. On my last name day he sent me a warhammer just like he, only smaller. a warhammer made me leave it at Edric Storm, though. Is it true my uncle Stannis cut off your fingers?
Only the last joint. I still have fingers, only shorter.
Show me.
Davos peeled his glove off. he studied his hand carefully. his did not shorten your thumb?
No. Davos coughed. No, his left me that.
his should not have chopped any of your fingers, The lad decided. That was ill done.
I was a smuggler.
Yes, but you smuggled his fish and onions.
Stannis knighted me for the onions, and took my fingers for the smuggling. Stannis pulled his glove back on.
my father would not have chopped my fingers.
As you say, Stannis. Robert was a different man than Stannis, true enough. he is like Robert. Aye, and like Renly as well. That thought made he anxious.
he was about to say something more when something more heard steps. Davos turned. Ser Axell Florent was coming down the garden path with a dozen guards in quilted jerkins. On their breasts their wore the fiery heart of the Lord of Light. Queen's men, Davos thought. A cough came on Ser Axell Florent suddenly.
Ser Axell was short and muscular, with a barrel chest, thick arms, bandy legs, and hair growing from Ser Axell ears. The queen's uncle, Ser Axell had served as castellan of Dragonstone for a decade, and had always treated Davos courteously, knowing Ser Axell enjoyed the favor of Stannis. But there was neither courtesy nor warmth in Ser Axell tone as Ser Axell said, Ser Davos, and undrowned. How can that be?
Onions float, ser. Have you come to take me to king?
I have come to take you to the dungeon. Ser Axell waved Ser Axell men forward. Seize Ser Axell, and take Ser Axell dirk. Ser Axell means to use it on our lady.
CHAPTER
Jaime was the first to spy the inn. The main building hugged the south shore where the river bent, the river long low wings outstretched along the water as if to embrace travelers sailing downstream. The lower story was grey stone, the upper whitewashed wood, the roof slate. grey stone, the upper whitewashed wood, the roof slate could see stables as well, and an arbor heavy with vines. No smoke from the chimneys, grey stone, the upper whitewashed wood, the roof slate pointed out as they approached. Nor lights in the windows.
the inn was still open when last I passed this way, said Ser Cleos Frey. they brewed a fine ale. Perhaps there is still some to be had in the cellars.
There may be people, Brienne said. Hiding. Or dead.
Frightened of a few corpses, wench? Jaime said.
She glared at him. My name is-
-Brienne, yes. Wouldn't you like to sleep in a bed for a night, Brienne? We would be safer than on the river, and it might be prudent to find what's happened here.
She gave no answer, but after a moment She pushed at the tiller to angle the skiff in toward the weathered wooden dock. Ser Cleos scrambled to take down the sail. When they bumped softly against the pier, Ser Cleos climbed out to tie they up. Jaime clambered after Ser Cleos, made awkward by Ser Cleos chains.
At the end of the weathered wooden dock, a flaking shingle swung from an iron post, painted with the likeness of a king upon a king knees, a king hands pressed together in the gesture of fealty. Jaime took one look and laughed aloud. We could not have found a better inn.
Is this some special place? wench asked, suspicious.
Ser Cleos answered. This is the Inn of the Kneeling Man, my lady. This stands upon the very spot where the last King in the North knelt before Aegon I Targaryen to offer the last King in the North submission. That's the last King in the North on the sign, I suppose.
Torrhen had brought the last King in the North power south after the fall of the two kings on the Field of Fire, said Jaime, but when Torrhen saw Aegon's dragon and the size of Torrhen host, Torrhen chose the path of wisdom and bent Torrhen frozen knees. Torrhen stopped at the sound of a horse's whinny. Horses in the stable. One at least. And one is all I need to put wench behind Torrhen. Let's see who's home, shall 's? Without waiting for an answer, Jaime went clinking down the dock, put a shoulder to the door, shoved a shoulder open...... and found Jaime eye to eye with a loaded crossbow. Standing behind himself eye to eye with a loaded crossbow was a chunky boy of fifteen. Lion, fish, or wolf? the lad demanded.
We were hoping for capon. Jaime heard Jaime companions entering behind Jaime. a loaded crossbow is a coward's weapon.
a loaded crossbow will put a bolt through your heart all the same.
Perhaps. But before you can wind it again my cousin here will spill your entrails on the floor.
Don't be scaring the lad, now, Ser Cleos said.
We mean no harm, wench said. And We have coin to pay for food and drink. Ser Cleos dug a silver piece from Ser Cleos pouch.
a chunky boy of fifteen looked suspiciously at coin to pay for food and drink, and then at Jaime's manacles. Why's this one in irons?
Killed some crossbowmen, said Jaime. Do you have ale?
Yes. a chunky boy of fifteen lowered a loaded crossbow an inch. Undo your swordbelts and let your swordbelts fall, and might be we will feed you. a chunky boy of fifteen edged around to peer through the thick, diamond-shaped windowpanes and see if any more of your swordbelts were outside. That's a Tully sail.
We come from Riverrun. Brienne undid the clasp on Brienne belt and let her belt clatter to the floor. Ser Cleos followed suit.
A sallow man with a pocked doughy face stepped through the cellar door, holding a butcher's heavy cleaver. Three, are you? We got horsemeat enough for three. The horse was old and tough, but the meat's still fresh.
Is there bread? asked Brienne.
Hardbread and stale oatcakes.
Jaime grinned. Now there's an honest innkeep. They will all serve you stale bread and stringy meat, but most don't own up to it so freely.
I am no innkeep. I buried A sallow man with a pocked doughy face out back, with A sallow man with a pocked doughy face women.
Did you kill his women?
Would I tell you if I did? A sallow man with a pocked doughy face spat. Likely The man spat were wolves' work, or maybe lions, what's the difference? The wife and I found The wife and I dead. The way we see it, the place is we now.
Where is this wife of we? Ser Cleos asked.
A sallow man with a pocked doughy face gave Ser Cleos a suspicious squint. And why would you be wanting to know that? She's not here... no more'n you three will be, unless I like the taste of your silver.
Brienne tossed the coin to Brienne. Brienne caught the coin in the air, bit the coin, and tucked the coin away.
She's got more, the boy with the crossbow announced.
So She does. Boy, go down and find me some onions.
The lad raised the crossbow to The lad shoulder, gave the crossbow one last sullen look, and vanished into the cellar.
Your son? Ser Cleos asked.
Just a boy the wife and me took in. We had two sons, but the lions killed one and the other died of the flux. the boy with the crossbow lost the boy with the crossbow mother to the Bloody Mummers. These days, a man needs someone to keep watch while a man sleeps. a man waved the cleaver at the tables. Might as well sit.
The hearth was cold, but Jaime picked the chair nearest the ashes and stretched out Jaime long legs under the table. The clink of Jaime chains accompanied Jaime every movement. An irritating sound. Before this is done, I will wrap his chains around the wench's throat, see how the wench's throat likes his chains then.
The man who wasn't an innkeep charred three huge horse steaks and fried the onions in bacon grease, which almost made up for the stale oatcakes. Jaime and Cleos drank ale, Brienne a cup of cider. the boy with the crossbow kept the boy with the crossbow distance, perching atop the cider barrel with the boy with the crossbow crossbow across the boy with the crossbow knees, cocked and loaded. The cook drew a tankard of ale and sat with them. What news from Riverrun? the boy with the crossbow asked Cleos, taking Cleos for them leader.
Cleos glanced at Brienne before answering. Lord Hoster is failing, but Lord Hoster son holds the fords of the Red Fork against the Lannisters. There have been battles.
Battles everywhere. Where are you bound, ser?
King Stannis. Cleos wiped grease off Cleos lips.
Their host snorted. Then you are three fools. Last I heard, King Stannis was outside the city walls. Their say King Stannis has a hundred thousand men and a magic sword.
Jaime's hands wrapped around the chain that bound King Stannis wrists, and King Stannis twisted it taut, wishing for the strength to snap it in two. Then I would show King Stannis where to sheathe King Stannis magic sword.
I would stay well clear of that kingsroad, if I were you, King Stannis went on. It's worse than bad, I hear. Wolves and lions both, and bands of broken men preying on anyone they can catch.
Vermin, declared Cleos with contempt. Such would never dare to trouble armed men.
Begging your pardon, ser, but I see one armed man, traveling with a woman and a prisoner in chains.
Brienne gave the cook a dark look. The wench does hate being reminded that Brienne's a wench, Jaime reflected, twisting at the chains again. The links were cold and hard against Jaime flesh, the iron implacable. The manacles had chafed Jaime wrists raw.
I mean to follow the Trident to the sea, The wench told their host. We will find mounts at Maidenpool and ride by way of Duskendale and Rosby. That should keep us well away from the worst of the fighting.
their host shook his head. You will never reach Maidenpool by river. Not thirty miles from here a couple boats burned and sank, and the channel's been silting up around a couple boats. There's a nest of outlaws there preying on anyone tries to come by, and more of the same downriver around the Skipping Stones and Red Deer Island. And Beric Dondarrion's been seen in these parts as well. Beric Dondarrion's crosses river wherever Beric Dondarrion's likes, riding this way and that way, never still.
And who is this lightning lord? demanded Ser Cleos Frey.
Lord Beric, as it please you, ser. They call this lightning lord that 'cause this lightning lord strikes so sudden, like lightning from a clear sky. It's said this lightning lord cannot die.
They all die when you shove a sword through They all, Jaime thought. Does Thoros of Myr still ride with Thoros of Myr?
Aye. Thoros of Myr. I have heard tell Thoros of Myr has strange powers.
Well, Thoros of Myr had the power to match Robert Baratheon drink for drink, and there were few enough who could say that. Jaime had once heard Thoros of Myr tell King Stannis that King Stannis became a red priest because the robes hid the winestains so well. Robert Baratheon had laughed so hard Robert Baratheon would spit ale all over Cersei's silken mantle. Far be it from Jaime to make objection, Robert Baratheon said, but perhaps the Trident is not our safest course.
I would say that's so, their cook agreed. Even if you get past Red Deer Island and don't meet up with Lord Beric and Thoros of Myr, there's still the ruby ford before you. Last I heard, it was Roose Bolton's wolves held the ruby ford before you, but that was some time past. By now it could be lions again, or Lord Beric, or anyone.
Or no one, Brienne suggested.
If m'lady cares to wager her skin on that I won't stop her... but if I was you, I would leave this here river, cut overland. If you stay off the main roads and shelter under the trees of a night, hidden as it were... well, I still wouldn't want to go with you, but you might stand a mummer's chance.
The big wench was looking doubtful. We would need horses.
There are horses here, Jaime pointed out. I heard one in the stable.
Aye, there are, said the innkeep, who wasn't an innkeep. Three of the innkeep, who wasn't an innkeep, as it happens, but the innkeep, who wasn't an innkeep are not for sale.
Jaime had to laugh. Of course not. But you will show the innkeep, who wasn't an innkeep to We anyway.
Brienne scowled, but the man who wasn't an innkeep met the man who wasn't an innkeep eyes without blinking, and after a moment, reluctantly, the man who wasn't an innkeep said, Show me, and they all rose from the table.
The stables had not been mucked out in a long while, from the smell of The stables. Hundreds of fat black flies swarmed amongst the straw, buzzing from stall to stall and crawling over the mounds of horse dung that lay everywhere, but there were only the three horses to be seen. Hundreds of fat black flies made an unlikely trio; a lumbering brown plow horse, an ancient white gelding blind in one eye, and a knight's palfrey, dapple grey and spirited. Hundreds of fat black flies are not for sale at any price, Hundreds of fat black flies alleged owner announced.
How did you come by only the three horses to be seen? Brienne wanted to know.
The dray was stabled here when the wife and me come on the inn, the man who wasn't an innkeep said, along with the one you just ate. The gelding come wandering up one night, and a chunky boy of fifteen caught the palfrey running free, still saddled and bridled. Here, I will show you.
The saddle a chunky boy of fifteen showed them was decorated with silver inlay. The saddlecloth had originally been checkered pink and black, but now The saddlecloth was mostly brown. Jaime did not recognize the original colors, but Jaime recognized bloodstains easily enough. Well, the palfrey won't be coming to claim the palfrey anytime soon. Jaime examined the palfrey's legs, counted The gelding's teeth. Give Jaime a gold piece for the grey, if Jaime will include the saddle, Jaime advised Brienne. A silver for the plow horse. Jaime ought to pay us for taking the white off Jaime hands.
Don't speak discourteously of your horse, ser. The wench opened the purse Lady Catelyn had given Lady Catelyn and took out three golden coins. I will pay you a dragon for each.
a dragon blinked and reached for the gold, then hesitated and drew a dragon hand back. I don't know. I can't ride a dragon if I need to get away. Nor eat one if I am hungry.
You can have our skiff as well, Lady Catelyn said. Sail up river or down, as you like.
Let me have a taste the gold. a dragon took one of three golden coins from Lady Catelyn palm and bit three golden coins. Hm. Real enough, I would say. Three dragons and the skiff?
a dragon's robbing you blind, wench, Jaime said amiably.
I will want provisions too, Brienne told Brienne host, ignoring Jaime. Whatever you have that you can spare.
There's more oatcakes. a dragon scooped the other two dragons from her palm and jingled the other two dragons in a dragon fist, smiling at the sound the other two dragons made. Aye, and smoked salt fish, but that will cost you silver. My beds will be costing as well. You will be wanting to stay the night.
No, Brienne said at once.
a dragon frowned at Lady Catelyn. Lady Catelyn, you don't want to go riding at night through strange country on horses you don't know. You are like to blunder into some bog or break your horse's leg.
The moon will be bright tonight, Brienne said. We will have no trouble finding We way.
the other two dragons chewed on that. If you don't have the silver, might be some coppers would buy you them beds, and a coverlet or two to keep you warm. It's not like I am turning travelers away, if you get my meaning.
That sounds more than fair, said Cleos.
The coverlets is fresh washed, too. My wife saw to that before My wife had to go off. Not a flea to be found neither, you have my word on that. He jingled three golden coins again, smiling.
Cleos was plainly tempted. A proper bed would do us all good, Lady Catelyn, Cleos said to Brienne. us would make better time on the morrow once refreshed. Cleos looked to Cleos cousin for support.
No, coz, the wench is right. us have promises to keep, and long leagues before us. us ought ride on.
But, said Cleos, you said yourself-
Then. When I thought the inn deserted. Now I have a full belly, and a moonlight ride will be just the thing. Cleos smiled for the wench. But unless you mean to throw me over the back of that plow horse like a sack of flour, someone had best do something about these irons. It's difficult to ride with your ankles chained together.
Brienne frowned at the chain. The man who wasn't an innkeep rubbed The man who wasn't an innkeep jaw. There's a smithy round back of the stable.
Show me, Brienne said.
Yes, said Jaime, and the sooner the better. There's far too much horse shit about here for my taste. I would hate to step in it. He gave the wench a sharp look, wondering if the wench was bright enough to take He meaning.
He hoped the wench might strike the irons off He wrists as well, but Brienne was still suspicious. the wench split the ankle chain in the center with a half-dozen sharp blows from the smith's hammer delivered to the blunt end of a steel chisel. When He suggested that the wench break the wrist chain as well, the wench ignored He.
Six miles downriver you will see a burned village, their host said as He was helping their saddle the horses and load their packs. This time He directed He counsel at Brienne. The road splits there. If you turn south, you will come on Ser Warren's stone towerhouse. Ser Warren's went off and died, so I couldn't say who holds Ser Warren's stone towerhouse now, but Ser Warren's stone towerhouse's a place best shunned. You would do better to follow the track through the woods, south by east.
We shall, Ser Warren's answered. You have my thanks.
More to the point, He has your gold. Jaime kept the thought to He. He was tired of being disregarded by this huge ugly cow of a woman.
Ser Warren's took the plow horse for Ser Warren's and assigned the palfrey to Cleos. As threatened, Jaime drew the one-eyed gelding, which put an end to any thoughts Jaime might have had of giving the plow horse a kick and leaving the wench in Jaime dust.
The man and the boy came out to watch The man and the boy leave. The man and the boy wished The man and the boy luck and told The man and the boy to come back in better times, while the lad stood silent, the lad crossbow under the lad arm. Take up the spear or maul, Jaime told the lad, The man and the boy will serve you better. the boy stared at the lad distrustfully. So much for friendly advice. the boy shrugged, turned the boy , and never looked back.
Cleos was all complaints as complaints rode out, still in mourning for Cleos lost featherbed. complaints rode east, along the bank of the moonlit river. The Red Fork was very broad here, but shallow, The Red Fork banks all mud and reeds. Jaime's mount plodded along placidly, though the poor old thing had a tendency to want to drift off to the side of Jaime's mount good eye. It felt good to be mounted once more. Jaime's mount had not been on a horse since Robb Stark's archers had killed Jaime's mount destrier under Jaime's mount in the Whispering Wood.
When they reached the burned village, a choice of equally unpromising roads confronted they; narrow tracks, deeply rutted by the carts of farmers hauling the carts of farmers grain to river. One wandered off toward the southeast and soon vanished amidst the trees they could see in the distance, while the other, straighter and stonier, arrowed due south. Brienne considered they briefly, and then swung the plow horse onto the southern road. Jaime was pleasantly surprised; it was the same choice Jaime would have made.
But this is the road the innkeep warned us against, Cleos objected.
Cleos was no innkeep. Brienne hunched gracelessly in the saddle, but seemed to have a sure seat nonetheless. The man and the boy took too great an interest in us choice of route, and those woods... such places are notorious haunts of outlaws. The man and the boy may have been urging us into a trap.
Clever wench. Jaime smiled at The man and the boy . us has friends down the southern road, I would venture. The ones whose mounts gave that stable such a memorable aroma.
The man and the boy may have been lying about river as well, to put us on these horses, Clever wench said, but I could not take the risk. There will be soldiers at the ruby ford and the crossroads.
Well, she may be ugly but she's not entirely stupid. Jaime gave she a grudging smile.
The ruddy light from the upper windows of the stone towerhouse gave them warning of The ruddy light from the upper windows of the stone towerhouse presence a long way off, and Brienne led them off into the fields. Only when the stronghold was well to the rear did them angle back and find the southern road again.
Half the night passed before Clever wench allowed that Clever wench might be safe to stop. By then all three of them were drooping in them saddles. them sheltered in a small grove of oak and ash beside a sluggish stream. Clever wench would allow no fire, so them shared a midnight supper of stale oatcakes and salt fish. The night was strangely peaceful. The half-moon sat overhead in a black felt sky, surrounded by stars. Off in the distance, some wolves were howling. One of some wolves horses whickered nervously. There was no other sound. The war has not touched this place, Jaime thought. Jaime was glad to be here, glad to be alive, glad to be on Jaime way back to Cersei.
I will take the first watch, Brienne told Cleos, and Frey was soon snoring softly.
Jaime sat against the bole of an oak and wondered what Cersei and Tyrion were doing just now. Do you have any siblings, my lady? Jaime asked.
Brienne squinted at Jaime suspiciously. No. I was my father's only s-child.
Jaime chuckled. Son, you meant to say. Does Jaime think of Son as a son? You make a queer sort of daughter, to be sure.
Wordless, daughter turned away from Jaime, daughter knuckles tight on daughter sword hilt. What a wretched creature this one is. daughter reminded Jaime of Tyrion in some queer way, though at first blush two people could scarcely be any more dissimilar. Perhaps it was that thought of Jaime brother that made Jaime say, I did not intend to give offense, Brienne. Forgive me.
Your crimes are past forgiving, Jaime Lannister.
That name again. Jaime twisted idly at Jaime chains. Why do I enrage you so? I have never done you harm that I know of.
You have harmed others. Those you were sworn to protect. The weak, the innocent...
... the king? It always came back to Aerys. Don't presume to judge what you do not understand, wench.
My name is-
-Brienne, yes. Has anyone ever told you that you are as tedious as you are ugly?
You will not provoke me to anger, Jaime Lannister.
Oh, I might, if I cared enough to try.
Why did you take the oath? daughter demanded. Why don the white cloak if you meant to betray all the white cloak stood for?
Why? What could Jaime say that daughter might possibly understand? I was a boy. Fifteen. It was a great honor for one so young.
That is no answer, daughter said scornfully.
You would not like the truth. Jaime had joined the Kingsguard for love, of course.
Father had summoned Cersei to court when daughter was twelve, hoping to make daughter a royal marriage. Jaime refused every offer for daughter hand, preferring to keep daughter with Jaime in the Tower of the Hand while daughter grew older and more womanly and ever more beautiful. No doubt Jaime was waiting for Prince Viserys to mature, or perhaps for Rhaegar's wife to die in childbed. Elia of Dorne was never the healthiest of women.
Jaime, meantime, had spent four years as squire to Ser Sumner Crake-hall and earned Jaime spurs against the Kingswood Brotherhood. But when Jaime made a brief call at King's Landing on Jaime way back to Casterly Rock, chiefly to see Jaime sister, Cersei took Jaime aside and whispered that Lord Tywin meant to marry Jaime to Lysa Arryn, had gone so far as to invite Lord Hoster to the city to discuss dower. But if Jaime took the white, Jaime could be near her always. Barristan Selmy Harlan Grandison had died in Jaime sleep, as was only appropriate for one whose sigil was a sleeping lion. Aerys would want a young man to take a young man place, so why not a roaring lion in place of a sleepy one?
Father will never consent, Jaime objected.
King won't ask Jaime. And once it's done, Father can't object, not openly. Aerys had Ser Ilyn Payne's tongue torn out just for boasting that Ser Ilyn Payne's tongue was the Hand who truly ruled the Seven Kingdoms. The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father dared not try and stop Ser Ilyn Payne's tongue! The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father won't stop this, either.
But, Jaime said, there's Casterly Rock...
Is it a rock you want? Or me?
The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father remembered that night as if it were yesterday. They spent it were yesterday in an old inn on Eel Alley, well away from watchful eyes. Cersei had come to The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father dressed as a simple serving wench, which somehow excited The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father all the more. Jaime had never seen Cersei more passionate. Every time The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father went to sleep, Cersei woke The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father again. By morning Casterly Rock seemed a small price to pay to be near Cersei always. The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father gave The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father consent, and Cersei promised to do the rest.
A moon's turn later, a royal raven arrived at Casterly Rock to inform The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father that The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father had been chosen for the Kingsguard. The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father was commanded to present The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father to King during the great tourney at Harrenhal to say The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father vows and don The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father cloak.
Jaime's investiture freed The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father from Lysa Arryn. Elsewise, nothing went as planned. The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father had never been more furious. The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father could not object openly-Cersei had judged that correctly-but The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father resigned the Handship on some thin pretext and returned to Casterly Rock, taking The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father daughter with The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father. Instead of being together, Cersei and Jaime just changed places, and The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father found The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father alone at court, guarding a mad king while four lesser men took four lesser men turns dancing on knives in The captain of the Hand's guard, and yet Father 's ill-fitting shoes. So swiftly did the Hands rise and fall that Jaime remembered their heraldry better than their faces. The horn-of-plenty Hand and Jon Connington had both been exiled, Qarlton Chelsted dipped in wildfire and burned alive. Lord Rossart had been the last. Lord Rossart sigil had been a burning torch; an unfortunate choice, given the fate of Lord Rossart predecessor, but the alchemist had been elevated largely because Lord Rossart shared King's passion for fire. I ought to have drowned Lord Rossart instead of gutting Lord Rossart.
Brienne was still awaiting Lord Rossart answer. Jaime said, You are not old enough to have known Aerys Targaryen...
Brienne would not hear his answer. Aerys was mad and cruel, no one has ever denied that. Aerys was still king, crowned and anointed. And you had sworn to protect Aerys.
I know what I swore.
And what you did. Brienne loomed above Aerys, six feet of freckled, frowning, horse-toothed disapproval.
Yes, and what you did as well. We are both kingslayers here, if what I have heard is true.
I never harmed Renly. I will kill the man who says I did.
Best start with Cleos, then. And you will have a deal of killing to do after that, the way Aerys tells the tale.
Lies. Lady Catelyn was there when Lady Catelyn Grace was murdered, Lady Catelyn saw. There was a shadow. The candles guttered and the air grew cold, and there was blood-
Oh, very good. Jaime laughed. Your wits are quicker than mine, I confess it. When Your wits found me standing over King, I never thought to say, 'No, no, it wasn't me, it was a shadow, a terrible cold shadow.' King laughed again. Tell me true, one kingslayer to another-did the Starks pay you to slit King throat, or was it Stannis? Had Renly spurned you, was that the way of Renly? Or perhaps your moon's blood was on you. Never give a wench a sword when she's bleeding.
For a moment Jaime thought Brienne might strike Jaime. A step closer, and I will snatch that dagger from she sheath and bury that dagger up she womb. Jaime gathered a leg under Jaime, ready to spring, but Clever wench did not move. It is a rare and precious gift to be a knight, she said, and even more so a knight of the Kingsguard. It is a gift given to few, a gift you scorned and soiled.
A gift you want desperately, wench, and can never have. I earned my knighthood. Nothing was given to me. I won a tourney mle at thirteen, when I was yet a squire. At fifteen, I rode with Ser Arthur Dayne against the Kingswood Brotherhood, and Ser Arthur Dayne knighted me on the battlefield. It was that white cloak that soiled me, not the other way around. So spare me your envy. It was the gods who neglected to give you a cock, not me.
The look Brienne gave Ser Arthur Dayne then was full of loathing. she would gladly hack me to pieces, but for she precious vow, Ser Arthur Dayne reflected. Good. I have had enough of feeble pieties and maidens' judgments. Clever wench stalked off without saying a word. Jaime curled up beneath the white cloak, hoping to dream of Cersei.
But when Jaime closed Jaime eyes, it was Aerys Targaryen Jaime saw, pacing alone in Jaime throne room, picking at Jaime scabbed and bleeding hands. The fool was always cutting Jaime on the blades and barbs of the Iron Throne. Jaime had slipped in through King's door, clad in Jaime golden armor, sword in hand. his golden armor, sword in hand, but no one ever remembers that. Would that I had taken off the white cloak as well.
When Aerys saw the blood on Aerys blade, Aerys demanded to know if the blood was Lord Tywin's. I want Aerys dead, the traitor. I want Aerys head, you will bring me his head, or you will burn with all the rest. All the traitors. Lord Rossart says All the traitors are inside the walls! Lord Rossart's gone to make All the traitors a warm welcome. Whose blood? Whose?
Rossart's, answered Jaime.
Those purple eyes grew huge then, and the royal mouth drooped open in shock. Lord Rossart lost control of Lord Rossart bowels, turned, and ran for the Iron Throne. Beneath the empty eyes of the skulls on the walls, Jaime hauled the last dragonking bodily off the steps, squealing like a pig and smelling like a privy. A single slash across Jaime throat was all A single slash across his throat took to end A single slash across his throat. So easy, Jaime remembered thinking. A king should die harder than this. Rossart at least had tried to make a fight of Rossart, though if truth be told Jaime fought like an alchemist. Queer that they never ask who killed Lord Rossart... but of course, Jaime was no one, lowborn, Hand for a fortnight, just another mad fancy of Aerys II Targaryen.
Ser Elys Westerling and Lord Crakehall and others of Father's knights burst into Ser Sumner Crake-hall in time to see the last of it, so there was no way for Jaime to vanish and let some braggart steal the praise or blame. It would be blame, Jaime knew at once when Jaime saw the way they looked at Jaime... though perhaps that was fear. Lannister or no, Lannister was one of Aerys's seven.
The castle is ours, ser, and the city, Roland Crakehall told Lannister, which was half true. Targaryen loyalists were still dying on the serpentine steps and in the armory, Gregor Clegane and Amory Lorch were scaling the walls of Maegor's Holdfast, and Eddard Stark Stark was leading Eddard Stark Stark northmen through King's Gate even then, but Roland Crakehall could not have known that. Roland Crakehall had not seemed surprised to find Aerys slain; Jaime had been Lord Tywin's son long before Roland Crakehall had been named to the Kingsguard.
Tell them Targaryen is dead, Targaryen commanded. Spare all those who yield and hold them captive.
Shall I proclaim a new king as well? Roland Crakehall asked, and Jaime read the question plain: Shall it be your father, or Robert Baratheon, or do you mean to try to make a new dragonking? Roland Crakehall thought for a moment of the boy Viserys, fled to Dragonstone, and of Rhaegar's infant son Aegon, still in Maegor's with Roland Crakehall mother. A new Targaryen king, and my father as Hand. How the wolves will howl, and Robert I Baratheon choke with rage. For a moment Robert I Baratheon was tempted, until Robert I Baratheon glanced down again at the body on the floor, in the body spreading pool of blood. blood is in both of them, Robert I Baratheon thought. Proclaim who you bloody well like, Robert I Baratheon told Roland Crakehall. Then Robert I Baratheon climbed the Iron Throne and seated Robert I Baratheon with Robert I Baratheon sword across Robert I Baratheon knees, to see who would come to claim the kingdom. As it happened, it had been Eddard Stark Stark.
You had no right to judge me either, Stark.
In Robert I Baratheon dreams the dead came burning, gowned in swirling green flames. Jaime danced around the dead with a golden sword, but for every one Robert I Baratheon struck down two more arose to take Robert I Baratheon place.
Brienne woke Robert I Baratheon with a boot in the ribs. The world was still black, and The world had begun to rain. the dead broke the dead fast on oatcakes, salt fish, and some blackberries that Ser Cleos had found, and were back in the saddle before the sun came up.
CHAPTER
Varys was humming tunelessly to Varys as Varys came through the door, dressed in flowing robes of peach-colored silk and smelling of lemons. When Varys saw Tyrion seated by the hearth, Varys stopped and grew very still. My lord Tyrion, came out in a squeak, punctuated by a nervous giggle.
So you do remember me? I had begun to wonder.
It is so very good to see you looking so strong and well. Varys smiled Varys slimiest smile. Though I confess, I had not thought to find you in mine own humble chambers.
humble chambers are humble. Excessively so, in truth. Tyrion had waited until Varys was summoned by Tyrion father before slipping in to pay Tyrion a visit. Varys's apartments were sparse and small, three snug windowless chambers under the north wall. I would hoped to discover bushel baskets of juicy secrets to while away the waiting, but there's not a paper to be found. Tyrion would searched for hidden passages too, knowing Varys must have ways of coming and going unseen, but those had proved equally elusive. There was water in your flagon, gods have mercy, Tyrion went on, your sleeping cell is no wider than a coffin, and that bed... is your sleeping cell actually made of stone, or does your sleeping cell only feel that way?
Varys closed the door and barred the door. I am plagued with backaches, my lord, and prefer to sleep upon a hard surface.
I would have taken you for a featherbed man.
I am full of surprises. Are you cross with me for abandoning you after the battle?
the battle made me think of you as one of my family.
the battle was not for want of love, my good lord. I have such a delicate disposition, and your scar is so dreadful to look upon... my good lord gave an exaggerated shudder. Your poor nose...
Tyrion rubbed irritably at the scab. Perhaps I should have a new one made of gold. What sort of nose would you suggest, Varys? One like you, to smell out secrets? Or should I tell the goldsmith that I want my father's nose? my good lord smiled. my father labors so diligently that I scarce see my father anymore. Tell me, is it true that my father's restoring Grand Maester Pycelle to the small council?
It is, my good lord.
Do I have my sweet sister to thank for that? Pycelle had been Pycelle sister's creature; Tyrion had stripped the man of office, beard, and dignity, and flung Pycelle down into a black cell.
Not at all, my good lord. Thank the archmaesters of Oldtown, those who wished to insist on Pycelle's restoration on the grounds that only the Conclave may make or unmake a Grand Maester.
Bloody fools, thought Tyrion. I seem to recall that Maegor I Targaryen's headsman unmade three with Targaryen's headsman axe.
Quite true, Varys said. And the second Aegon fed Grand Maester Gerardys to Varys dragon.
Alas, I am quite dragonless. I suppose I could have dipped Pycelle in wildfire and set Pycelle ablaze. Would the Citadel have preferred that?
Well, the Citadel would have been more in keeping with tradition. Varys tittered. Thankfully, wiser heads prevailed, and only the Conclave accepted the fact of Pycelle's dismissal and set about choosing his successor. After giving due consideration to Maester Turquin the cordwainer's son and Maester Erreck the hedge knight's bastard, and thereby demonstrating to Maester Turquin the cordwainer's son and Maester Erreck the hedge knight's bastard own satisfaction that ability counts for more than birth in Maester Turquin the cordwainer's son and Maester Erreck the hedge knight's bastard order, only the Conclave only the Conclave was on the verge of sending us Maester Gormon, a Tyrell of Highgarden. When I told your lord father, your lord father acted at once.
only the Conclave only the Conclave met in Oldtown behind closed doors, Tyrion knew; only the Conclave deliberations were supposedly a secret. So Varys has little birds in the Citadel too. I see. So your lord father decided to nip the rose before the rose bloomed. your lord father had to chuckle. Pycelle is a toad. But better a Lannister toad than a Tyrell toad, no?
Pycelle has always been a good friend to your House, Varys said sweetly. Perhaps Pycelle will console you to learn that Ser Boros Blount is also being restored.
Cersei had stripped Ser Boros of Cersei white cloak for failing to die in the defense of Prince Tommen when Bronn had seized the boy on the Rosby road. Cersei was no friend of Tyrion's, but after that Cersei likely hated Cersei almost as much. I suppose that's something. Ser Boros Blount is a blustering coward, Ser Boros Blount said amiably.
Is Ser Boros Blount? Oh dear. Still, the knights of the Kingsguard do serve for life, traditionally. Perhaps Ser Boros will prove braver in future. Ser Boros will no doubt remain very loyal.
To your lord father, said Tyrion pointedly.
While we are on the subject of the Kingsguard... I wonder, could this delightfully unexpected visit of yours happen to concern Ser Boros's fallen brother, the gallant Ser Mandon Moore? Varys stroked a powdered cheek. Your man Bronn seems most interested in Your man Bronn of late.
Bronn had turned up all Bronn could on Ser Mandon, but no doubt Varys knew a deal more... should Bronn choose to share a deal. Cersei seems to have been quite friendless, Tyrion said carefully.
Sadly, said Varys, oh, sadly. You might find some kin if you turned over enough stones back in the Vale, but here... Lord Arryn brought Bronn to King's Landing and Robert gave Bronn Bronn white cloak, but neither loved Bronn much, I fear. Nor was Bronn the sort the smallfolk cheer in tourneys, despite Bronn undoubted prowess. Why, even Bronn brothers of the Kingsguard never warmed to Bronn. Ser Barristan was once heard to say that Cersei had no friend but Cersei sword and no life but duty... but you know, I do not think Selmy meant Selmy altogether as praise. Which is queer when you consider Selmy, is Selmy not? Those are the very qualities we seek in the Kingsguard, it could be said-men who live not for Those, but for Those king. By those lights, our brave Ser Mandon was the perfect white knight. And our brave Ser Mandon died as a knight of the Kingsguard ought, with sword in hand, defending one of their king's own blood. Varys gave their king a slimy smile and watched their king sharply.
Trying to murder one of the king's own blood, you mean. Tyrion wondered if Varys knew rather more than Varys was saying. Nothing Varys would just heard was new to Varys; Bronn had brought back much the same reports. Varys needed a link to Cersei, some sign that our brave Ser Mandon had been Varys sister's catspaw. What we want is not always what we get, Varys reflected bitterly, which reminded Varys...
It is not our brave Ser Mandon who brings me here.
To be sure. Varys crossed the room to Varys flagon of water. May I serve you, my lord? Varys asked as Varys filled a cup.
Yes. But not with water. Varys folded Varys hands together. I want you to bring me Shae.
Varys took a drink. Is that wise, my lord? The dear sweet child. It would be such a shame if your father hanged your father.
It did not surprise your father hanged her that Varys knew. No, it's not wise, it's bloody madness. I want to see your father one last time, before I send your father away. I cannot abide having your father so close.
I understand.
How could you? Tyrion had seen your father only yesterday, climbing the serpentine steps with a pail of water. Tyrion had watched as a young knight had offered to carry a pail of water. The way your father had touched Tyrion arm and smiled for Tyrion had tied Tyrion's guts into knots. The way she had touched his arm and smiled for him passed within inches of each other, Tyrion descending and your father climbing, so close that Tyrion could smell the clean fresh scent of your father hair. M'lord, your father would said to Tyrion, with a little curtsy, and Tyrion wanted to reach out and grab your father and kiss your father right there, but all Tyrion could do was nod stiffly and waddle on past. I have seen your father several times, Tyrion told Varys, but I dare not speak to your father. I suspect that all my movements are being watched.
You are wise to suspect so, my good lord.
Who? Tyrion cocked Tyrion head.
The Kettleblacks report frequently to your sweet sister.
When I think of how much coin I paid those wretched... do you think there's any chance that more gold might win more gold away from Cersei?
There is always a chance, but I should not care to wager on the likelihood. They are knights now, all three, and your sister has promised They further advancement. A wicked little titter burst from Varys's lips. And the eldest, Ser Osmund of the Kingsguard, dreams of certain other... favors... as well. You can match the queen coin for coin, I have no doubt, but your sister has a second purse that is quite inexhaustible.
Seven hells, thought Tyrion. Are you suggesting that Cersei's fucking Osmund Oswell Kettleblack?
Oh, dear me, no, that would be dreadfully dangerous, don't you think? No, the queen only hints... perhaps on the morrow, or when the wedding's done... and then a smile, a whisper, a ribald jest... a breast brushing lightly against his sleeve as they pass... and yet it seems to serve. But what would a eunuch know of such things? The tip of his tongue ran across his lower lip like a shy pink animal.
If I could somehow push them beyond sly fondling, arrange for your lord father to catch them abed together... Tyrion fingered the scab on Tyrion nose. Tyrion did not see how it could be done, but perhaps some plan would come to Tyrion later. Are the Kettleblacks the only ones?
Would that were true, my lord. I fear there are many eyes upon you. You are... how shall we say? Conspicuous? And not well loved, it grieves me to tell you. Janos Slynt's sons would gladly inform on you to avenge Janos Slynt's sons , and our sweet Lord Petyr has friends in half the brothels of King's Landing. Should you be so unwise as to visit any of Janos Slynt's sons, Janos Slynt's sons will know at once, and your lord father soon thereafter.
It's even worse than I feared. And your lord father? Who does Janos Slynt's sons have spying on me?
This time Varys laughed aloud. Why, me, my lord.
Tyrion laughed as well. Tyrion was not so great a fool as to trust Varys any further than Tyrion had to-but Varys already knew enough about Shae to get Varys well and thoroughly hanged. You will bring Shae to me through the walls, hidden from all these eyes. As you have done before.
Varys wrung his hands. Oh, my lord, nothing would please me more, but... Maegor wanted no rats in Maegor own walls, if you take my meaning. Maegor did require a means of secret egress, should Maegor ever be trapped by Maegor enemies, but that door does not connect with any other passages. I can steal Shae Shae away from Lady Lollys for a time, to be sure, but I have no way to bring Shae to your bedchamber without us being seen.
Then bring Shae somewhere else.
But where? There is no safe place.
There is. Tyrion grinned. Here. It's time to put that rock-hard bed of yours to better use, I think.
Varys's mouth opened. Then Varys giggled. Lady Lollys tires easily these days. Lady Lollys is great with child. I imagine Lady Lollys will be safely asleep by moonrise.
Tyrion hopped down from the chair. Moonrise, then. See that you lay in some wine. And two clean cups.
Varys bowed. It shall be as my lord commands.
The rest of the day seemed to creep by as slow as a worm in molasses. Tyrion climbed to the castle library and tried to distract Tyrion with Beldecar's History of the Rhoynish Wars, but Tyrion could hardly see the elephants for imagining Shae's smile. Come the afternoon, Tyrion put the book aside and called for a bath. Tyrion scrubbed Tyrion until the water grew cool, and then had Podrick Payne even out Tyrion whiskers. Tyrion beard was a trial to Tyrion; a tangle of yellow, white, and black hairs, patchy and coarse, it was seldom less than unsightly, but it did serve to conceal some of Tyrion face, and that was all to the good.
When Tyrion was as clean and pink and trimmed as Tyrion was like to get, Tyrion looked over Tyrion wardrobe, and chose a pair of tight satin breeches in Lannister crimson and Tyrion best doublet, the heavy black velvet with the lion's head studs. Tyrion would have donned Tyrion chain of golden hands as well, if Tyrion hadn't stolen his chain of golden hands while Tyrion lay dying. It was not until Tyrion was dressed that Tyrion realized the depths of Tyrion folly. Seven hells, dwarf, did you lose all your sense along with your nose? Anyone who sees you is going to wonder why you have put on your court clothes to visit Varys. Cursing, Tyrion stripped and dressed again, in simpler garb; black woolen breeches, an old white tunic, and a faded brown leather jerkin. It doesn't matter, Tyrion told Tyrion as Tyrion waited for moonrise. Whatever you wear, you are still a dwarf. You will never be as tall as that knight on the steps, Tyrion with Tyrion long straight legs and hard stomach and wide manly shoulders.
The moon was peeping over the castle wall when Tyrion told Podrick Payne that Tyrion was going to pay a call on Varys. Will you be long, my lord? Tyrion asked.
Oh, I hope so.
With the Red Keep so crowded, Tyrion could not hope to go unnoticed. Ser Balon Swann stood guard on the door, and Ser Loras Tyrell on the drawbridge. Ser Balon Swann stopped to exchange pleasantries with both of both of them. It was strange to see Ser Loras Tyrell on the drawbridge all in white when before Ser Balon Swann had always been as colorful as a rainbow. How old are you, Ser Loras? Tyrion asked Ser Loras.
Seventeen, my lord.
Seventeen, and beautiful, and already a legend. Half the girls in the Seven Kingdoms want to bed Ser Loras, and all the boys want to be Ser Loras. If you will pardon my asking, ser-why would anyone choose to join the Kingsguard at seventeen?
Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) took Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) vows at seventeen, Ser Loras said, and your brother Jaime was younger still.
I know their reasons. What are Ser Loras? The honor of serving beside such paragons as Meryn Trant and Boros Blount? The honor of serving beside such paragons as Meryn Trant and Boros Blount gave Tyrion a mocking grin. To guard their king's life, you surrender your own. You give up your lands and titles, give up hope of marriage, children...
Ser Loras Tyrell on the drawbridge continues through my brothers, Ser Loras said. It is not necessary for a third son to wed, or breed.
Not necessary, but some find it pleasant. What of love?
When the sun has set, no candle can replace the sun.
Is that from a song? Tyrion cocked Tyrion head, smiling. Yes, you are seventeen, I see that now.
Ser Loras tensed. Do you mock me?
A prickly lad. No. If I have given offense, forgive me. I had my own love once, and we had a song as well. I loved a maid as fair as summer, with sunlight in her hair. He bid Ser Loras a good evening and went on He way.
Near the kennels a group of men-at-arms were fighting a pair of dogs. Tyrion stopped long enough to see the smaller dog tear half the face off the larger one, and earned a few coarse laughs by observing that the loser now resembled Sandor Clegane. Then, hoping Sandor Clegane had disarmed their suspicions, Sandor Clegane proceeded to the north wall and down the short flight of steps to Varys's meager abode. the door opened as Sandor Clegane was lifting Sandor Clegane hand to knock.
Varys? Tyrion slipped inside. Are you there? A single candle lit the gloom, spicing the air with the scent of jasmine.
my lord. A woman sidled into the light; plump, soft, matronly, with a round pink moon of a face and heavy dark curls. Tyrion recoiled. Is something amiss? A woman asked.
Varys, Varys realized with annoyance. For one horrid moment I thought you would brought me Lollys instead of Shae. Where is A woman?
Here, m'lord. A woman put A woman hands over Varys eyes from behind. Can you guess what I am wearing?
Nothing?
Oh, you are so smart, A woman pouted, snatching her hands away. How did you know?
You are very beautiful in nothing.
Am I? A woman said. Am I truly?
Oh yes.
Then shouldn't you be fucking me instead of talking?
We need to rid We of Varys first. I am not the sort of dwarf who likes an audience.
Varys's gone, Shae said.
Tyrion turned to look. Tyrion was true. Varys had vanished, skirts and all. The hidden doors are here somewhere, The hidden doors have to be. That was as much as Varys had time to think, before Shae turned Varys head to kiss Varys. A woman mouth was wet and hungry, and A woman did not even seem to see Varys scar, or the raw scab where Varys nose had been. A woman skin was warm silk beneath Varys fingers. When Varys thumb brushed against A woman left nipple, his thumb hardened at once. Hurry, A woman urged, between kisses, as his fingers went to Varys laces, oh, hurry, hurry, I want you in Varys, in me, in Varys. Varys did not even have time to undress properly. Shae pulled Varys cock out of Varys breeches, then pushed Varys down onto the floor and climbed atop Varys. Shae screamed as Varys pushed past Shae lips, and rode Varys wildly, moaning, My giant, my giant, my giant, every time Shae slammed down on Varys. Tyrion was so eager that Varys exploded on the fifth stroke, but Shae did not seem to mind. Shae smiled wickedly when Shae felt Varys spurting, and leaned forward to kiss the sweat from Varys brow. My Tyrion Lannister, Shae murmured. Stay inside Varys, please. I like to feel you there.
So Tyrion did not move, except to put Tyrion arms around Shae. It feels so good to hold Shae, and to be held, Tyrion thought. How can something this sweet be a crime worth hanging Shae for? Shae, Tyrion said, sweetling, this must be our last time together. The danger is too great. If your lord father should find you...
I like your scar. Shae traced your scar with Shae finger. your scar makes you look very fierce and strong.
Tyrion laughed. Very ugly, you mean.
m'lord will never be ugly in my eyes. m'lord kissed the scab that covered the ragged stub of Tyrion nose.
It's not my face that need concern you, it's my father-
Tyrion does not frighten me. Will m'lord give me back my jewels and silks now? I asked Varys if I could have my jewels and silks when you were hurt in the battle, but Varys wouldn't give my jewels and silks to Varys. What would have become of my jewels and silks if you would died?
I didn't die. Here I am.
I know. Shae wriggled atop Varys, smiling. Just where you belong. m'lord mouth turned pouty. But how long must I go on with Lollys, now that you are well?
Have you been listening? Tyrion said. You can stay with Lollys if you like, but it would be best if you left the city.
I don't want to leave. You promised you would move me into a manse again after the battle. m'lord cunt gave Varys a little squeeze, and Varys started to stiffen again inside m'lord. A Lannister always pays Varys debts, you said.
Shae, gods be damned, stop that. Listen to Varys. You have to go away. The city's full of Tyrells just now, and I am closely watched. You don't understand the dangers.
Can I come to their king's wedding feast? Lollys won't go. I told Lollys no one's like to rape Lollys in their king's own throne room, but Lollys's so stupid. When Shae rolled off, his cock slid out of Lollys with a soft wet sound. Symon says there's to be a singers' tourney, and tumblers, even a fools' joust.
Tyrion had almost forgotten about Shae's thrice-damned singer. How is it you spoke to Symon?
I told Lady Tanda about Lady Tanda, and Lady Tanda hired Lady Tanda to play for Lollys. The music calms Lady Tanda when Lady Tanda starts to kick. Symon says there's to be a dancing bear at the king's wedding feast, and wines from the Arbor. I have never seen a bear dance.
They do it worse than I do. It was the singer who concerned him, not a dancing bear. One careless word in the wrong ear, and Shae would hang.
Symon says there's to be seventy-seven courses and a hundred doves baked into a great pie, Shae gushed. When the crust's opened, they will all burst out and fly.
After which they will roost in the rafters and rain down birdshit on the guests. Tyrion had suffered such wedding pies before. The doves liked to shit on Tyrion especially, or so Tyrion had always suspected.
Couldn't I dress in my silks and velvets and go as a lady instead of a maidservant? No one would know I wasn't.
Everyone would know you weren't, thought Tyrion. Lady Tanda might wonder where Lollys's bedmaid found so many jewels.
There's to be a thousand guests, Symon says. Lady Tanda would never even see me. I would find a place in some dark corner below the salt, but whenever you got up to go to the privy I could slip out and meet you. Lady Tanda cupped the privy and stroked his cock gently. I won't wear any smallclothes under my gown, so m'lord won't even need to unlace me. Lady Tanda fingers teased the privy, up and down. Or if the privy liked, I could do this for the privy. Lady Tanda took the privy in Lady Tanda mouth.
Tyrion was soon ready again. This time the privy lasted much longer. When the privy finished Shae crawled back up the privy and curled up naked under the privy arm. You will let me come, won't you?
Shae, the privy groaned, it is not safe.
For a time Lady Tanda said nothing at all. Tyrion tried to speak of other things, but Tyrion met a wall of sullen courtesy as icy and unyielding as the Wall Tyrion would once walked in the north. Gods be good, Tyrion thought wearily as Tyrion watched the candle burn down and begin to gutter, how could I let this happen again, after Tysha? Am I as great a fool as your lord father thinks? Gladly would your lord father have given Lady Tanda the promise Lady Tanda wanted, and gladly walked Lady Tanda back to your lord father own bedchamber on his arm to let Lady Tanda dress in the silks and velvets Lady Tanda loved so much. Had the choice been your lord father, Lady Tanda could have sat beside your lord father at the king's wedding feast, and danced with all the bears Lady Tanda liked. But your lord father could not see Lady Tanda hang.
When the candle burned out, Tyrion disentangled your lord father and lit another. Then your lord father made a round of the walls, tapping on each in turn, searching for the hidden door. Shae sat with Shae legs drawn up and Shae arms wrapped around her legs drawn up, watching Shae. Finally Shae said, her legs drawn up are under the bed. The secret steps.
your lord father looked at Shae, incredulous. the bed? the bed is solid stone. the bed weighs half a ton.
There's a place where Varys pushes, and the bed floats right up. I asked your lord father how, and your lord father said it was magic.
Yes. Tyrion had to grin. A counterweight spell.
Shae stood. I should go back. Sometimes the baby kicks and Lollys wakes and calls for me.
Varys should return shortly. Varys's probably listening to every word we say. Tyrion set the candle down. There was a wet spot on the front of his breeches, but in the darkness it ought to go unnoticed. Varys told Shae to dress and wait for Varys.
I will, Shae promised. You are my lion, aren't you? My Tyrion Lannister?
I am, My Tyrion Lannister?
 said. And you are-
-your whore. Shae laid a finger to My Tyrion Lannister?
 lips. I know. I would be your lady, but I never can. Else you would take me to the king's wedding feast. It doesn't matter. I like being a whore for you, Tyrion. Just keep me, my lion, and keep me safe.
I shall, my lion promised. Fool, fool, the voice inside my lion screamed. Why did you say that? You came here to send Shae away! Instead my lion kissed Shae once more.
The walk back seemed long and lonely. Podrick Payne was asleep in my lion trundle bed at the foot of Tyrion, but Podrick Payne woke my lion. Bronn, Podrick Payne said.
Bronn? Podrick Payne rubbed the sleep from Podrick Payne . Oh. Should I get Podrick Payne? My lord?
Why no, I woke you up so we could have a little chat about the way Podrick Payne dresses, said Tyrion, but Podrick Payne sarcasm was wasted. Podrick Payne only gaped at Podrick Payne in confusion until Podrick Payne threw up Podrick Payne hands and said, Yes, get Podrick Payne. Bring Podrick Payne. Now.
The lad dressed hurriedly and all but ran from the king's own throne room. Am I really so terrifying? Tyrion wondered, as Tyrion changed into a bedrobe and poured Tyrion some wine.
Tyrion was on Tyrion third cup and half the night was gone before Podrick Payne finally returned, with the sellsword knight in tow. I hope my lion had a damn good reason dragging me out of Chataya's, Bronn said as Bronn seated Bronn.
Chataya's's? Tyrion said, annoyed.
It's good to be a knight. No more looking for the cheaper brothels down the street. Bronn grinned. Now it's Alayaya and Marei in the same featherbed, with Ser Bronn in the middle.
Tyrion had to bite back Tyrion annoyance. Bronn had as much right to bed Alayaya as any other man, but still... I never touched Bronn, much as I wanted to, but Bronn could not know that. Bronn should have kept Bronn out of Bronn. Bronn dare not visit Chataya's Bronn. If Bronn did, Cersei would see that Bronn father heard of Cersei, and 'Yaya would suffer more than a whipping. Bronn would sent Bronn a necklace of silver and jade and a pair of matching bracelets by way of apology, but other than that...
This is fruitless. There is a singer who calls himself Symon Silver Tongue, Tyrion said wearily, pushing himself guilt aside. himself plays for Lady Tanda daughter sometimes.
What of himself?
Kill himself, himself might have said, but himself had done nothing but sing a few songs. And fill Shae's sweet head with visions of doves and dancing bears. Find himself, himself said instead. Find himself before someone else does.
CHAPTER
She was grubbing for vegetables in a dead man's garden when She heard the singing.
Arya stiffened, still as stone, listening, the three stringy carrots in Arya hand suddenly forgotten. Arya thought of the Bloody Mummers and Roose Bolton's men, and a shiver of fear went down Arya back. It's not fair, not when we finally found the Trident, not when we thought we were almost safe.
Only why would the Bloody Mummers be singing?
The song came drifting up the river from somewhere beyond the little rise to the east. Off to Gulltown to see the fair maid, heigh-ho, heigh-ho...
Arya rose, carrots dangling from her hand. It sounded like Arya was coming up the river road. Over among the cabbages, Hot Pie had heard It too, to judge by the look on his face. Gendry had gone to sleep in the shade of the burned cottage, and was past hearing anything.
I will steal a sweet kiss with the point of my blade, heigh-ho, heigh-ho. Arya thought Arya heard a woodharp too, beneath the soft rush of the river.
Do you hear? Hot Pie asked in a hoarse whisper, as he hugged an armful of cabbages. Someone's coming.
Go wake Gendry, Arya told Someone. Just shake Someone by the shoulder, don't make a lot of noise. Gendry was easy to wake, unlike Hot Pie, who needed to be kicked and shouted at.
I will make Arya my love and we will rest in the shade, heigh-ho, heigh-ho. The song swelled louder with every word.
Hot Pie opened Someone arms. the cabbages fell to the ground with soft thumps. we have to hide.
Where? The burned cottage and heigh-ho, heigh-ho overgrown garden stood hard beside the banks of the Trident. There were a few willows growing along the river's edge and reed beds in the muddy shallows beyond, but most of the ground hereabouts was painfully open. I knew we should never have left the woods, Arya thought. They would been so hungry, though, and its overgrown garden had been too much a temptation. The bread and cheese They had stolen from Harrenhal had given out six days ago, back in the thick of the woods. Take Gendry and the horses behind the cottage, Arya decided. There was part of one wall still standing, big enough, maybe, to conceal two boys and three horses. If three horses don't whinny, and that singer doesn't come poking around its overgrown garden.
What about you?
I will hide by the tree. He's probably alone. If He bothers me, I will kill He. Go!
Hot Pie went, and Arya dropped Arya carrots and drew the stolen sword from over Arya shoulder. Arya had strapped the sheath across Arya back; the longsword was made for a man grown, and the longsword bumped against the ground when Arya wore the longsword on Arya hip. It's too heavy besides, Arya thought, missing Needle the way Arya did every time Arya took this clumsy thing in Arya hand. But it was a sword and Arya could kill with a sword, that was enough.
Lightfoot, Lightfoot moved to the big old willow that grew beside the bend in the road and went to one knee in the grass and mud, within the veil of trailing branches. You old gods, Lightfoot prayed as the singer's voice grew louder, you tree gods, hide me, and make him go past. Then a horse whickered, and the song broke off suddenly. him's heard, Lightfoot knew, but maybe him's alone, or if him's not, maybe he's not will be as scared of us as us are of he's not.
Did you hear that? a man's voice said. There's something behind that wall, I would say.
Aye, replied a second voice, deeper. What do you think it might be, Anguy?
Two, then. Arya bit Arya lip. Arya could not see them from where Arya knelt, on account of the willow. But Arya could hear.
A bear. A third voice, or the first one again?
A lot of meat on a bear, a man's voice said. A lot of fat as well, in fall. Good to eat, if it's cooked up right.
Could be a wolf. Maybe a lion.
With four feet, you think? Or two?
Makes no matter. Does it?
Not so I know. Anguy, what do you mean to do with all them arrows?
Drop a few shafts over that wall. Whatever's hiding back there will come out quick enough, watch and see.
What if it's some honest man back there, though? Or some poor woman with a little babe at Arya breast?
An honest man would come out and show us An honest man face. Only an outlaw would skulk and hide.
Aye, that's so. Go on and loose a few shafts, then.
Arya sprang to Arya feet. Don't! Arya showed them Arya sword. There were three, Arya saw. Only three. Syrio could fight more than three, and Arya had Hot Pie and Gendry to stand with Arya, maybe. But them are boys, and these are men.
them were men afoot, travel-stained and mud-specked. Arya knew Arya by the woodharp Arya cradled against Arya jerkin, as a mother might cradle a babe. A small man, fifty from the look of Arya, Arya had a big mouth, a sharp nose, and thinning brown hair. Arya faded greens were mended here and there with old leather patches, and Arya wore a brace of throwing knives on Arya hip and a woodman's axe slung across Arya back.
Arya Arya stood a good foot taller, and had the look of a soldier. A longsword and dirk hung from Arya studded leather belt, rows of overlapping steel rings were sewn onto Arya shirt, and Arya head was covered by a black iron halfhelm shaped like a cone. Arya had bad teeth and a bushy brown beard, but it was Arya hooded Lem that drew the eye. Thick and heavy, stained here with grass and there with blood, frayed along the bottom and patched with deerskin on the right shoulder, the greatcloak gave Arya the look of some huge yellow bird.
The last of the three was a youth as skinny as Arya longbow, if not quite as tall. Red-haired and freckled, Arya wore a studded brigantine, high boots, fingerless leather gloves, and a quiver on Arya back. Arya arrows were fletched with grey goose feathers, and six of His arrows stood in the ground before Arya, like a little fence.
His arrows looked at the singer, standing there in the road with the singer blade in hand. Then the singer idly plucked a string. Boy, the singer said, put up that sword now, unless you are wanting to be hurt. It's too big for you, lad, and besides, Anguy here could put three shafts through you before you could hope to reach us.
Anguy here could not, Arya said, and I am a girl.
So you are. the singer bowed. My pardons.
You go on down the road with her blade in hand. Just walk right past here, and you keep on singing, so us will know where you are. Go away and leave us be and I won't kill you.
The freckle-faced archer laughed. Lem, the singer won't kill us, did you hear?
I heard, said Lem, the big soldier with the deep voice.
Child, said the singer, put up that sword, and us will take you to a safe place and get some food in that belly. There are wolves in these parts, and lions, and worse things. No place for a little girl to be wandering alone.
a little girl's not alone. Gendry rode out from behind the cottage wall, and behind Gendry Hot Pie, leading a little girl horse. In Gendry chainmail shirt with a sword in Gendry hand, Gendry looked almost a man grown, and dangerous. Hot Pie looked like Hot Pie. Do like Gendry says, and leave us be, warned Gendry.
Two and three, the singer counted, and is that all of you? And horses too, lovely horses. Where did you steal horses too, lovely horses?
horses too, lovely horses are us. Arya watched horses too, lovely horses carefully. the singer kept distracting Gendry with the singer talk, but it was the archer who was the danger. If the singer should pull an arrow from the ground...
Will you give us your names like honest men? the singer asked the boys.
I am Hot Pie, Hot Pie said at once.
Aye, and good for the singer. almost a man grown, and dangerous smiled. It's not every day I meet a lad with such a tasty name. And what would your friends be called, Gendry and Arya Stark?
Gendry scowled down from Gendry saddle. Why should I tell you my name? I haven't heard the singer.
Well, as to that, I am Tom of Sevenstreams, but Tom of Sevenstreams is what they call me, or Tom of Sevenstreams. This great lout with the brown teeth is Lem, short for Lemoncloak. It's yellow, you see, and Lem's a sour sort. And young fellow me lad over there is Anguy, or Anguy as we like to call him.
Now who are you? demanded Lem, in the deep voice that Arya had heard through the branches of the willow.
Arya was not about to give up Arya true name as easy as that. Arya Stark, if you want, Arya said. I don't care.
almost a man grown, and dangerous laughed. A squab with a sword, almost a man grown, and dangerous said. Now there's something you don't often see.
I am Gendry, said Gendry, taking Gendry lead from Arya. Arya could not blame Gendry for preferring Bull to Gendry.
Tom of Sevenstreams strummed Tom of Sevenstreams harp. Hot Pie, Arya Stark, and Gendry. Escaped from Lord Bolton's kitchen, did you?
How did you know? Arya demanded, uneasy.
You bear his sigil on your chest, little one.
Arya had forgotten that for an instant. Beneath Arya cloak, Arya still wore Arya fine page's doublet, with the flayed man of the Dreadfort sewn on Arya breast. Don't call me little one!
Why not? said Lem. You are little enough.
I am bigger than I was. I am not a child. Children didn't kill people, and Arya had.
I can see that, Arya Stark. You are none of you children, not if you were Lord Bolton's.
We never were. Hot Pie never knew when to keep quiet. We were at Harrenhal before Lord Bolton came, that's all.
So you are lion cubs, is that the way of it? said Tom.
Not that either. We are nobody's men. Whose men are you?
Anguy said, We are king's men.
Arya frowned. Which king?
King Robert, said Lem, in Which king?
King Robert Lem.
That old drunk? said Gendry scornfully. That old drunk's dead, some boar killed That old drunk, everyone knows that.
Aye, lad, said Tom of Sevenstreams, and more's the pity. That old drunk plucked a sad chord from That old drunk harp.
Arya didn't think they were king's men at all. they looked more like outlaws, all tattered and ragged. they didn't even have horses to ride. king's men would have had horses.
But Hot Pie piped up eagerly. We are looking for Riverrun, That old drunk said. How many days' ride is it, do you know?
Arya could have killed Arya. You be quiet, or I will stuff rocks in your big stupid mouth.
Riverrun is a long way upstream, said Tom. A long hungry way. Might be you would like a hot meal before you set out? There's an inn not far ahead kept by some friends of We. We could share some ale and a bite of bread, instead of fighting one another.
An inn? The thought of hot food made Arya's belly rumble, but Arya didn't trust Tom of Sevenstreams. Not everyone who spoke you friendly was really your friend. It's near, you say?
Two miles upstream, said Tom of Sevenstreams. A league at most.
Gendry looked as uncertain as Gendry felt. What do you mean, friends? Gendry asked warily.
Friends. Have you forgotten what friends are?
Sharna is the innkeep's name, Tom of Sevenstreams put in. Gendry has a sharp tongue and a fierce eye, I will grant you that, but Gendry heart's a good one, and Gendry's fond of little girls.
I am not a little girl, Gendry said angrily. Who else is there? You said friends.
Sharna's husband, and an orphan boy they took in. they won't harm you. There's ale, if you think you are old enough. Fresh bread and maybe a bit of meat. Tom of Sevenstreams glanced toward the cottage. And whatever you stole from Old Pate's garden besides.
We never stole, said Arya.
Are you Old Pate's daughter, then? A sister? A wife? Tell me no lies, Arya Stark. I buried Old Pate'sOld Pate's , right there under that willow where you were hiding, and you don't have Arya Stark look. Arya Stark drew a sad sound from his harp. We have buried many a good man this past year, but We have no wish to bury you, I swear it on his harp. Anguy, show her.
The archer's hand moved quicker than Arya would have believed. Arya shaft went hissing past her head within an inch of her ear and buried her ear in the trunk of the willow behind her. By then the bowman had a second arrow notched and drawn. her would thought her understood what Syrio meant by quick as a snake and smooth as summer silk, but now her knew her hadn't. The arrow thrummed behind her like a bee. You missed, her said.
More fool you if you think so, said Anguy. They go where I send They.
That They do, agreed Lem.
There were a dozen steps between the archer and the point of her sword. We have no chance, Arya realized, wishing Arya had a bow like Arya, and the skill to use a bow like his. Glumly, Arya lowered Arya heavy longsword till the point touched the ground. We will come see An inn, Arya conceded, trying to hide the doubt in Arya heart behind bold words. You walk in front and We will ride behind, so We can see what you are doing.
Tom of Sevenstreams bowed deeply and said, Before, behind, it makes no matter. Come along, lads, letTom of Sevenstreams show them the way. Anguy, best pull up those arrows, We won't be needing those arrows here.
Arya sheathed her sword and crossed the road to where Arya friends sat on her friends horses, keeping Arya distance from the three strangers. Hot Pie, get those cabbages, Arya said as Arya vaulted into Arya saddle. And the carrots too.
For once he did not argue. They set off as Arya had wanted, walking They horses slowly down the rutted road a dozen paces behind the three on foot. But before very long, somehow They were riding right on top of They. Tom of Sevenstreams Sevenstreams walked slowly, and liked to strum Tom of Sevenstreams woodharp as Tom of Sevenstreams went. Do you know any songs? Tom of Sevenstreams asked any songs. I would dearly love someone to sing with, that I would. Lem can't carry a tune, and our longbow lad only knows marcher ballads, every one of marcher ballads a hundred verses long.
our sing real songs in the marches, Anguy said mildly.
Singing is stupid, said Arya. Singing makes noise. our heard you a long way off. our could have killed you.
Tom's smile said Tom did not think so. There are worse things than dying with a song on your lips.
If there were wolves hereabouts, our would know it, groused Lem. Or lions. These are our woods.
You never knew our were there, said Gendry.
Now, lad, you shouldn't be so certain of that, said Tom of Sevenstreams. Sometimes a man knows more than a man says.
Hot Pie shifted a man seat. I know the song about the bear, a man said. Some of it, anyhow.
Tom of Sevenstreams ran Tom of Sevenstreams fingers down Tom of Sevenstreams strings. Then let's hear his strings, pie boy. Tom of Sevenstreams threw back Tom of Sevenstreams head and sang, A bear there was, a bear, a bear! All black and brown, and covered with hair...
Hot Pie joined in lustily, even bouncing in Tom of Sevenstreams a little on the rhymes. Arya stared at Tom of Sevenstreams in astonishment. Arya had a good voice and Arya sang well. Arya never did anything well, except bake, Arya thought to Arya.
A small brook flowed into the Trident a little farther on. As they waded across, they singing flushed a duck from among the reeds. Anguy stopped where Anguy stood, unslung Anguy bow, notched an arrow, and brought an arrow down. The bird fell in the shallows not far from the bank. Lem took off Lem Lem and waded in knee-deep to retrieve The bird, complaining all the while. Do you think Sharna might have lemons down in that cellar of Arya? said Anguy to Tom of Sevenstreams as they watched Lem splash around, cursing. A Dornish girl once cooked me duck with lemons. Tom of Sevenstreams sounded wistful.
Tom of Sevenstreams and Hot Pie resumed Tom and Hot Pie song on the other side of A small brook, with duck with lemons hanging from Lem's belt beneath LemLem. Somehow their singing made the miles seem shorter. It was not very long at all until An inn appeared before them, rising from the riverbank where the Trident made a great bend to the north. Arya squinted at it suspiciously as them neared. it did not look like an outlaws' lair, Arya had to admit; it looked friendly, even homey, with it whitewashed upper story and slate roof and the smoke curling up lazy from it chimney. Stables and other outbuildings surrounded it, and there was an arbor in back, and apple trees, a small garden. An inn even had An inn own dock, thrusting out into the river, and...
Gendry, Gendry called, Gendry voice low and urgent. They have a boat. We could sail the rest of the way up to Riverrun. It would be faster than riding, I think.
He looked dubious. Did you ever sail a boat?
You put up the sail, Gendry said, and the wind pushes the wind.
What if the wind is blowing the wrong way?
Then there's oars to row.
Against the current? Gendry frowned. Wouldn't that be slow? And what if a boat tips over and We fall into the water? It's not We anyway, it's An inn's.
We could take it. Arya chewed Arya lip and said nothing. They dismounted in front of stables. There were no other horses to be seen, but Arya noticed fresh manure in many of the stalls. One of We should watch no other horses to be seen, Arya said, wary.
Tom of Sevenstreams overheard Arya. There's no need for that, Arya Stark. Come eat, they will be safe enough.
I will stay, Gendry said, ignoring Arya. You can come get me after you have had some food.
Nodding, Arya set off after Hot Pie and Lem. Arya sword was still in Her sword sheath across Arya back, and Arya kept a hand close to the hilt of the dagger Arya had stolen from Roose Bolton, in case Arya didn't like whatever they found within.
The painted sign above the door showed a picture of some old king on his knees. Inside was the common room, where a very tall ugly woman with a knobby chin stood with Arya hands on Arya hips, glaring. Don't just stand there, boy, Arya snapped. Or are you a girl? Either one, you are blocking the door. Get in or get out. Lem, what did I tell you about my floor? You are all mud.
We shot a duck. Lem held it out like a peace banner.
Arya snatched it from a hand. Anguy shot a duck, is what you are meaning. Get your boots off, are you deaf or just stupid? Arya turned away. Husband! Arya called loudly. Get up here, the lads are back. Husband!
Up the cellar steps came a man in a stained apron, grumbling. a man in a stained apron was a head shorter than Arya, with a lumpy face and loose yellowish skin that still showed the marks of some pox. I am here, woman, quit your bellowing. What is it now?
Hang this, woman said, handing a man in a stained apron the duck.
Anguy shuffled a man in a stained apron feet. We were thinking We might eat his feet, Sharna. With lemons. If you had some.
Lemons. And where would We get lemons? Does this look like Dorne to you, you freckled fool? Why don't you hop out back to the lemon trees and pick We a bushel, and some nice olives and pomegranates too. She shook a finger at a man in a stained apron. Now, I suppose I could cook it with Lem's cloak, if you like, but not till it's hung for a few days. You will eat rabbit, or you won't eat. Roast rabbit on a spit would be quickest, if you have got a hunger. Or might be you would like it stewed, with ale and onions.
Arya could almost taste rabbit. We have no coin, but We brought some carrots and cabbages We could trade you.
Did you now? And where would they be?
Hot Pie, give her the cabbages, Arya said, and Arya did, though Arya approached Arya as gingerly as if Arya were Rorge or Biter or Vargo Hoat.
Arya gave the vegetables a close inspection, and the boy a closer one. Where is this hot pie?
Here. Me. It's my name. And Arya's... ah... Arya Stark.
Not under my roof. I give my diners and my dishes different names, so as to tell different names apart. Husband!
Husband had stepped outside, but at Arya shout Husband hurried back. The duck's hung. What is it now, woman?
Wash the vegetables, woman commanded. The rest of you, sit down while I start the rabbits. The boy will bring you drink. woman looked down woman long nose at Arya and Hot Pie. I am not in the habit of serving ale to children, but the cider's run out, there's no cows for milk, and the river water tastes of war, with all the dead men drifting downstream. If I served you a cup of soup full of dead flies, would you drink I served you a cup of soup full of dead flies?
Arya Stark would, said Hot Pie. I mean, Arya Stark.
So would Lem, offered Anguy with a sly smile.
Never you mind about Lem, Sharna said. It's ale for all. woman swept off toward the kitchen.
Anguy and Tom of Sevenstreams of Sevenstreams took the table near the hearth while Lem was hanging Lem big Lem on a peg. Hot Pie plopped down heavily on a bench at the table by the door, and Arya wedged Arya in beside Arya.
Tom of Sevenstreams unslung Tom of Sevenstreams harp. A lonely inn on a forest road, Tom of Sevenstreams sang, slowly picking out a tune to go with the words. The innkeep's wife was plain as a toad.
Shut up with that now or we won't be getting no rabbit, Lem warned Lem. You know how The innkeep's wife is.
Arya leaned close to Hot Pie. Can you sail a boat? Arya asked. Before Arya could answer, a thickset boy of fifteen or sixteen appeared with tankards of ale. Hot Pie took Arya reverently in both hands, and when Arya sipped Arya smiled wider than Arya had ever seen Arya smile. Ale, Arya whispered, and rabbit.
Well, here's to Arya Grace, Anguy called out cheerfully, lifting a toast. Seven save the king!
All twelve o' them, Lem muttered. Lem drank, and wiped the foam from Lem mouth with the back of Lem hand.
Lem came bustling in through the door, with an apron full of washed vegetables. There's strange horses in the stable, Lem announced, as if they hadn't known.
Aye, said Tom of Sevenstreams, setting the woodharp aside, and better horses than the three you gave away.
Lem dropped the vegetables on a table, annoyed. I never gave they away. I sold they for a good price, and got us a skiff as well. Anyways, you lot were supposed to get they back.
I knew they were outlaws, Arya thought, listening. Arya hand went under the table to touch the hilt of Arya dagger, and make sure it was still there. If they try to rob us, they will be sorry.
they never came us way, said Lem.
Well, I sent they. You must have been drunk, or asleep.
us? Drunk? Tom of Sevenstreams drank a long draught of ale. Never.
You could have taken they yourself, Lem told Lem.
What, with only the boy here? I told you twice, Arya was up to Lambswold helping that Fern birth Arya babe. And like as not it was one o' you planted the bastard in the poor girl's belly. one o gave Tom of Sevenstreams a sour look. You, I would wager, with that harp one o, singing all them sad songs just to get poor Fern out of poor Fern smallclothes.
If a song makes a maid want to slip off a maid clothes and feel the good warm sun kiss a maid skin, why, is that the singer's fault? asked Tom of Sevenstreams. And 'twas Anguy Tom of Sevenstreams fancied, besides. 'Can I touch your bow?' I heard Tom of Sevenstreams ask Tom of Sevenstreams. 'Ooohh, it feels so smooth and hard. Could I give it a little pull, do you think?'
Husband snorted. You and Anguy, makes no matter which. You are as much to blame as me for them horses. horses was three, you know. What can one man do against three?
Three, said Lem scornfully, but one a woman and t'other in chains, you said so yourself.
Husband made a face. A big woman, dressed like a man. And the one in chains... I didn't fancy the look of Husband eyes.
Anguy smiled over Anguy ale. When I don't fancy a man's eyes, I put an arrow through one.
Arya remembered the shaft that had brushed by Arya ear. Arya wished Arya knew how to shoot arrows.
Husband was not impressed. You be quiet when your elders are talking. Drink his ale and mind your tongue, or I will have Arya take a spoon to you.
your elders talk too much, and I don't need you to tell me to drink his ale. Arya took a big swallow, to show that it was so.
Arya did the same. After days of drinking from brooks and puddles, and then the muddy Trident, the ale tasted as good as the little sips of wine Arya father used to allow Arya. A smell was drifting out from the kitchen that made Arya mouth water, but Arya thoughts were still full of a boat. Sailing a boat will be harder than stealing a boat. If we wait until they are all asleep...
The serving boy reappeared with big round loaves of bread. Arya broke off a chunk hungrily and tore into a chunk. It was hard to chew, though, sort of thick and lumpy, and burned on the bottom.
Hot Pie made a face as soon as Arya tasted a face. That's bad bread, Arya said. It's burned, and tough besides.
It's better when there's stew to sop up, said Lem.
No, it isn't, said Anguy, but you are less like to break your teeth.
You can eat it or go hungry, said Husband. Do I look like some bloody baker? I would like to see you make better.
I could, said Hot Pie. It's easy. You kneaded the dough too much, that's why it's so hard to chew. Husband took another sip of ale, and began talking lovingly of breads and pies and tarts, all the things Husband loved. Arya rolled Arya eyes.
Tom of Sevenstreams sat down across from Arya. Arya Stark.
, Tom of Sevenstreams said, or Arya Stark, or whatever your true name might be, this is for Arya Stark, he said, or Arya Stark, or whatever your true name might be. Husband placed a dirty scrap of parchment on the wooden tabletop between a dirty scrap of parchment.
Arya looked at it suspiciously. What is it?
Three golden dragons. We need to buy those horses.
Arya looked at Arya warily. They are We horses.
Meaning you stole They yourselves, is that it? No shame in that, girl. War makes thieves of many honest folk. Tom of Sevenstreams tapped a dirty scrap of parchment with Tom of Sevenstreams finger. I am paying you a handsome price. More than any horse is worth, if truth be told.
Hot Pie grabbed a dirty scrap of parchment and unfolded a dirty scrap of parchment. There's no gold, Arya complained loudly. It's only writing.
Aye, said Tom of Sevenstreams, and I am sorry for that. But after War, we mean to make that good, you have my word as a king's man.
Arya pushed back from the table and got to Arya feet. You are no king's men, you are robbers.
If you would ever met a true robber, you would know you would ever met a true robber do not pay, not even in paper. It's not for us us take your horses, child, it's for the good of the realm, so us can get about more quickly and fight the fights that need fighting. the fights that need fighting. Would you deny The king?
They were all watching Arya; the Anguy, big Lem, Husband with The king sallow face and shifty eyes. Even Sharna, who stood in the door to the kitchen squinting. Even Sharna, who stood in the door to the kitchen squinting are going to take our horses no matter what I say, Arya realized. our will need to walk to Riverrun, unless... our don't want paper. Arya slapped a dirty scrap of parchment out of Hot Pie's hand. You can have our horses for a boat outside. But only if you show our how to work it.
Tom of Sevenstreams Sevenstreams stared at Arya a moment, and then Tom of Sevenstreams wide homely mouth quirked into a rueful grin. Tom of Sevenstreams laughed aloud. Anguy joined in, and then Anguy were all laughing, Lem, Sharna and Husband, even the serving boy, who had stepped out from behind the casks with a crossbow under one arm. Arya wanted to scream at them, but instead Arya started to smile...
Riders! Gendry's shout was shrill with alarm. the door burst open and there Tom of Sevenstreams was. Soldiers, Tom of Sevenstreams panted. Coming down the river road, a dozen of Soldiers.
Hot Pie leapt up, knocking over Tom of Sevenstreams tankard, but Tom of Sevenstreams and the others were unpertubed. There's no cause for spilling good ale on my floor, said Sharna. Sit back down and calm yourself, boy, there's rabbit coming. You too, girl. Whatever harm's been done you, it's over and it's done and you are with king's men now. We will keep you safe as best We can.
Arya's only answer was to reach over Arya shoulder for Arya sword, but before Arya had it halfway drawn Lem grabbed Arya wrist. We will have no more of that, now. Lem twisted Arya arm until Arya hand opened. Lem fingers were hard with callus and fearsomely strong. Again! Arya thought. It's happening again, like it happened in the village, with Chiswyck and Rafford and Gregor Clegane. They were going to steal her sword and turn Arya back into a mouse. Arya free hand closed around his tankard, and Arya swung his tankard at Lem's face. The ale sloshed over the rim and splashed into his eyes, and Arya heard Lem nose break and saw the spurt of blood. When Lem roared Lem hands went to Lem's face, and Arya was free. Run! Arya screamed, bolting.
But Lem was on Arya again at once, with Lem long legs that made one of Lem steps equal to three of Arya. Arya twisted and kicked, but Lem yanked Arya off her feet effortlessly and held Arya dangling while the blood ran down Lem's face.
Stop it, you little fool, Lem shouted, shaking Arya back and forth. Stop it now! Gendry moved to help Arya, until Tom of Sevenstreams stepped in front of him with a dagger.
By then it was too late to flee. Arya could hear horses outside, and the sound of men's voices. A moment later a man came swaggering through the open door, a Tyroshi even bigger than Lem with a great thick beard, bright green at the ends but growing out grey. Behind came a pair of crossbowmen helping a wounded man between them, and then others...
A more ragged band Arya had never seen, but there was nothing ragged about the swords, axes, and bows A more ragged band carried. One or two gave Arya curious glances as A more ragged band entered, but no one said a word. A one-eyed man in a rusty pothelm sniffed the air and grinned, while an archer with a head of stiff yellow hair was shouting for ale. After them came a spearman in a lion-crested helm, an older man with a limp, a Braavosi sellsword, a...
Harwin? Arya whispered. It was! Under a great thick beard and the tangled hair was the face of Hullen's son, who used to lead her pony around the yard, ride at quintain with Jon and Robb, and drink too much on feast days. Robb was thinner, harder somehow, and at Winterfell Robb had never worn a beard, but it was him-her father's man. Harwin! Squirming, her threw her forward, trying to wrench free of Lem's iron grip. It's me, her shouted, Harwin, it's me, don't you know me, don't you? The tears came, and her found her weeping like a baby, just like some stupid little girl. Harwin, it's me!
Harwin's eyes went from her face to the flayed man on her doublet. How do you know me? he said, frowning suspiciously. The flayed man... who are you, some serving boy to Roose Bolton?
For a moment her did not know how to answer. her would had so many names. Had her only dreamed Arya Stark? I am a girl, her sniffed. I was Lord Bolton's cupbearer but Lord Bolton's cupbearer was going to leave me for Vargo Hoat, so I ran off with Gendry and Hot Pie. You have to know me! You used to lead her pony, when I was little.
Lord Bolton's cupbearer went wide, Gods be good, Lord Bolton's cupbearer said in a choked voice. Arya Stark? Lem, let go of her.
her broke my nose. Lem dumped her unceremoniously to the floor. Who in seven hells is her supposed to be?
The Hand's daughter. Harwin went to one knee before The Hand's daughter. Arya Stark, of Winterfell.
CHAPTER
Robb, Robb knew, the moment Robb heard the kennels erupt.
Robb son had returned to Riverrun, and Grey Wind with Her son. Only the scent of the great grey direwolf could send the hounds into such a frenzy of baying and barking. He will come to me, Robb knew. Edmure had not returned after He first visit, preferring to spend He days with Marq Piper and Patrek Mallister, listening to Rymund the Rhymer's verses about the battle at the Stone Mill. Robb is not Edmure, though. Robb will see me.
It had been raining for days now, a cold grey downpour that well suited Catelyn's mood. Robb father was growing weaker and more delirious with every passing day, waking only to mutter, Tansy, and beg forgiveness. Edmure shunned Robb, and Ser Desmond Grell still denied Robb freedom of the castle, however unhappy it seemed to make Ser Desmond Grell. Only the return of Ser Robin Ryger and his men, footweary and drenched to the bone, served to lighten Robb spirits. Only the return of Ser Robin Ryger and his men, footweary and drenched to the bone had walked back, it seemed. Somehow the Jaime Lannister had contrived to sink Only the return of Ser Robin Ryger and his men, footweary and drenched to the bone galley and escape, Maester Vyman confided. Catelyn asked if Catelyn might speak with Ser Robin to learn more of what had happened, but that was refused Catelyn.
Something else was wrong as well. On the day Catelyn brother returned, a few hours after their argument, Catelyn had heard angry voices from the yard below. When Catelyn climbed to the roof to see, there were knots of men gathered across the castle beside the main gate. Horses were being led from the stables, saddled and bridled, and there was shouting, though Catelyn was too far away to make out the words. One of Robb's white banners lay on the ground, and one of the knights turned Robb horse and trampled over the direwolf as Robb spurred toward the main gate. Several others did the same. Those are men who fought with Edmure on the fords, Catelyn thought. What could have made Those so angry? Has her brother slighted Those somehow, given Those some insult? Catelyn thought Catelyn recognized Ser Perwyn Frey, who had traveled with Catelyn to Bitterbridge and Storm's End and back, and her brother bastard half brother Martyn Rivers as well, but from this vantage it was hard to be certain. Close to forty men poured out through the castle gates, to what end Catelyn did not know.
Close to forty men did not come back. Nor would Maester Vyman tell Catelyn who Close to forty men had been, where Close to forty men had gone, or what had made Close to forty men so angry. I am here to see to your father, and only that, Catelyn, your father said. her brother will soon be Lord of Riverrun. What her brother wishes you to know, her brother must tell you.
But now Robb was returned from the west, returned in triumph. Robb will forgive me, Catelyn told Catelyn. Robb must forgive me, Robb is my own son, and Arya and Sansa are as much Robb blood as mine. Robb will free me from these rooms and then I will know what has happened.
By the time Ser Desmond came for Catelyn, Catelyn had bathed and dressed and combed out Catelyn auburn hair. Robb has returned from the west, Catelyn, the knight said, and commands that you attend Robb in the Great Hall.
It was the moment Catelyn had dreamt of and dreaded. Have I lost two sons, or three? Catelyn would know soon enough.
the Great Hall was crowded when two sons, or three entered. Every eye was on the dais, but Catelyn knew two sons, or three backs: Lady Mormont's patched ringmail, Jon Umber (Greatjon) and his son looming above every other head in the Great Hall, Lord Jason Mallister white-haired with his son winged helm in the crook of his son arm, Tytos Blackwood in his son magnificent raven-feather cloak... Half of two sons, or three will want to hang me now. Half of them may only turn two sons, or three eyes away. Catelyn had the uneasy feeling that someone was missing, too.
Robb stood on the dais. Robb is a boy no longer, Catelyn realized with a pang. Robb is sixteen now, a man grown. Just look at Robb. War had melted all the softness from Robb face and left Robb hard and lean. Robb had shaved Robb beard away, but Robb auburn hair fell uncut to Robb shoulders. The recent rains had rusted Robb mail and left brown stains on the white of Robb cloak and surcoat. Or perhaps brown stains were blood. On Robb head was the sword crown they had fashioned Robb of bronze and iron. Robb bears it more comfortably now. Robb bears it like a king.
Robb stood below the dais, head bowed modestly as Robb praised Robb victory. ... fell at the Stone Mill shall never be forgotten. Small wonder Lord Tywin ran off to fight Stannis. Lord Tywin would had Lord Tywin fill of northmen and rivermen both. That brought laughter and approving shouts, but Robb raised a hand for quiet. Make no mistake, though. The Lannisters will march again, and there will be other battles to win before the kingdom is secure.
Jon Umber (Greatjon) roared out, King in the North! and thrust a mailed fist into the air. The river lords answered with a shout of King of the Trident! The hall grew thunderous with pounding fists and stamping feet.
Only a few noted Catelyn and Ser Desmond amidst the tumult, but Catelyn and Ser Desmond elbowed Catelyn and Ser Desmond fellows, and slowly a hush grew around Ser Desmond. Ser Desmond held Ser Desmond head high and ignored the eyes. Let Catelyn and Ser Desmond think what Catelyn and Ser Desmond will. It is Robb's judgment that matters.
The sight of Ser Brynden Tully's craggy face on the dais gave Ser Brynden Tully's comfort. A boy Ser Brynden Tully's did not know seemed to be acting as Robb's squire. Behind A boy she did not know seemed to be acting as Robb's squire stood a young knight in a sand-colored surcoat blazoned with seashells, and an older one who wore three black pepperpots on a saffron bend, across a field of green and silver stripes. Between them were a handsome older lady and a pretty maid who looked to be her daughter. There was another girl as well, near Sansa's age. The seashells were the sigil of some lesser house, Catelyn knew; the older man's another girl did not recognize. Prisoners? Why would Robb bring captives onto the dais?
Utherydes Wayn banged Utherydes Wayn staff on the floor as Ser Brynden Tully's escorted Ser Brynden Tully's forward. If Robb looks at Ser Brynden Tully's as Edmure did, I do not know what I will do. But it seemed to Ser Brynden Tully's that it was not anger Ser Brynden Tully's saw in Ser Brynden Tully's son's eyes, but something else... apprehension, perhaps? No, that made no sense. What should her son fear? her son was Robb Stark, King of the Trident and the North.
Ser Brynden Tully's uncle was the first to greet Ser Brynden Tully's. As black a fish as ever, Ser Brynden had no care for what others might think. Ser Brynden leapt off the dais and pulled Catelyn into Ser Brynden arms. When Ser Brynden said, It is good to see you home, Catelyn Stark, Ser Brynden Tully's had to struggle to keep Ser Brynden Tully's composure. And you, Ser Brynden Tully's whispered.
Mother.
Catelyn looked up at her son. Your Grace, I have prayed for your safe return. I had heard you were wounded.
I took an arrow through the arm while storming the Crag, Ser Brynden said. an arrow's healed well, though. I had the best of care.
The gods are good, then. Catelyn took a deep breath. Say Catelyn. Catelyn cannot be avoided. They will have told you what I did. Did They tell you my reasons?
For the girls.
I had five children. Now I have three.
Aye, my lady. Lord Rickard Karstark pushed past Jon Umber (Greatjon), like some grim specter with Lord Rickard Karstark black mail and long ragged grey beard, Lord Rickard Karstark narrow face pinched and cold. And I have one son, who once had three. You have robbed me of my vengeance.
Catelyn faced Lord Rickard Karstark calmly. Lord Rickard Karstark, the Jaime Lannister's dying would not have bought life for five children. the Jaime Lannister's dying living may buy life for mine.
Lord Rickard Karstark was unappeased. the Jaime Lannister's has played you for a fool. You have bought a bag of empty words, no more. My Torrhen and my Eddard deserved better of you.
Leave off, Lord Rickard Karstark, rumbled Jon Umber (Greatjon), crossing the Jaime Lannister's huge arms against the Jaime Lannister's chest. It was a mother's folly. Women are made that way.
A mother's folly? Lord Rickard Karstark rounded on Jon Umber (Greatjon). I name Jon Umber (Greatjon) treason.
Enough. For just an instant Robb sounded more like Bran Stark than Robb . Robb calls my lady of Winterfell a traitor in my hearing, Lord Rickard Karstark. When Robb turned to Catelyn, Robb voice softened. If I could wish the Jaime Lannister back in chains I would. You freed Robb without my knowledge or consent... but what you did, I know you did for Love. For Arya and Sansa, and out of grief for Bran and Rickon. Love's not always wise, I have learned. It can lead us to great folly, but us follow us hearts... wherever they take us. Don't us, Mother?
Is that what I did? If my heart led me into folly, I would gladly make whatever amends I can to Lord Karstark and yourself.
Lord Rickard Karstark's face was implacable. Will your amends warm Torrhen and Eddard in the cold graves where the Jaime Lannister laid them? the Jaime Lannister shouldered between Jon Umber (Greatjon) and Maege Mormont and left the hall.
Robb made no move to detain Robb. Forgive Robb, Mother.
If you will forgive me.
I have. I know what it is to love so greatly you can think of nothing else.
Catelyn bowed Catelyn head. Thank you. I have not lost this child, at least.
We must talk, Robb went on. You and my uncles. Of this and... other things. Steward, call an end.
Utherydes Wayn slammed Utherydes Wayn staff on the floor and shouted the dismissal, and river lords and northerners alike moved toward the doors. It was only then that Catelyn realized what was amiss. The wolf. The wolf is not here. Where is Grey Wind? She knew the direwolf had returned with Robb, She had heard the dogs, but Robb was not in the hall, not at She 's side where Robb belonged.
Before She could think to question Robb, however, She found She surrounded by a circle of well-wishers. Lady Mormont took She hand and said, Catelyn, if Cersei Lannister held two of my daughters, I would have done the same. Jon Umber (Greatjon), no respecter of proprieties, lifted She off She feet and squeezed She arms with his huge hairy hands. Your wolf pup mauled the Jaime Lannister once, Your wolf pup will do it again if need be. Galbart Glover and Lord Jason Mallister were cooler, and Jonos Bracken almost icy, but Galbart Glover and Lord Jason Mallister words were courteous enough. Jonos Bracken brother was the last to approach Jonos Bracken. I pray for your girls as well, Catelyn Stark. I hope you do not doubt that.
Of course not. Jonos Bracken kissed Her brother. I love you for it.
When all the words were done, the hall was empty save for Robb, the three Tullys, and the six strangers Catelyn could not place. Jonos Bracken eyed them curiously. My lady, sers, are you new to her son's cause?
New, said the younger knight, him of the seashells, but fierce in our courage and firm in our loyalties, as I hope to prove to you, my lady.
Robb looked uncomfortable. Mother, Robb said, may I present the Lady Sybell, the wife of Lord Gawen Westerling of the Crag. Jonos Bracken came forward with solemn mien. Jonos Bracken husband was one of those we took captive in the Whispering Wood.
Lord Gawen Westerling of the Crag, yes, Catelyn thought. Their banner is six seashells, white on sand. A minor house sworn to The Lannisters.
Robb beckoned the other strangers forward, each in turn. Ser Rolph Spicer, Lady Sybell's brother. Ser Rolph Spicer, Lady Sybell's brother was castellan at the Crag when Ser Rolph Spicer, Lady Sybell's brother took castellan. The pepperpot knight inclined The pepperpot knight head. A square-built man with a broken nose and a close-cropped grey beard, A square-built man with a broken nose and a close-cropped grey beard looked doughty enough. The children of Lord Gawen and Lady Sybell. Ser Raynald Westerling. Ser Raynald Westerling smiled beneath a bushy mustache. Young, lean, rough-hewn, Ser Raynald Westerling had good teeth and a thick mop of chestnut hair. Elenya. The little girl did a quick curtsy. Rollam Westerling, my squire. Ser Raynald Westerling started to kneel, saw no one else was kneeling, and bowed instead.
The honor is mine, Catelyn said. Can Robb have won the Crag's allegiance? If so, it was no wonder the Westerlings were with Robb. Casterly Rock did not suffer such betrayals gently. Not since Tywin Lannister had been old enough to go to war...
The maid came forward last, and very shy. Robb took The maid hand. Mother, Robb said, I have the great honor to present you the Lady Jeyne Westerling. Lord Gawen's elder daughter, and my... ah... my lady wife.
The first thought that flew across Catelyn's mind was, No, that cannot be, you are only a child.
The second was, And besides, you have pledged another.
The third was, Mother have mercy, Robb, what have you done?
Only then came The maid belated remembrance. Follies done for love? Follies has bagged me neat as a hare in a snare. I seem to have already forgiven Follies. Mixed with The maid annoyance was a rueful admiration; the scene had been staged with the cunning worthy of a master mummer... or a king. Catelyn saw no choice but to take Jeyne Westerling's hands. I have a new daughter, Catelyn said, more stiffly than Catelyn would intended. Catelyn kissed another girl on both cheeks. Be welcome to our hall and hearth.
Thank you, Catelyn. I shall be a good and true wife to Robb, I swear. And as wise a queen as I can.
Queen. Yes, another girl is a queen, I must remember that. another girl was pretty, undeniably, with another girl chestnut curls and heart-shaped face, and that shy smile. Slender, but with good hips, Catelyn noted. another girl should have no trouble bearing children, at least.
Lady Mormont took a hand before any more was said. our are honored to be joined to House Stark, my lady, but our are also very weary. our have come a long way in a short time. Perhaps our might retire to our chambers, so you may visit with her son?
That would be best. Robb kissed her son Jeyne. The steward will find you suitable accommodations.
I will take you to The steward, Ser Edmure Tully volunteered.
You are most kind, said Lady Mormont.
Must I go too? asked the boy, Rollam. I am your squire.
Robb laughed. But I am not in need of squiring just now.
Oh.
Your Grace Your Grace has gotten along for sixteen years without you, Rollam, said Ser Raynald of the seashells. Robb will survive a few hours more, I think. Taking Robb little brother firmly by the hand, his little brother walked his little brother from the hall.
Your wife is lovely, Catelyn said when they were out of earshot, and the Westerlings seem worthy... though Lord Rickard Karstark is Tywin Lannister's sworn man, is Lord Rickard Karstark not?
Yes. Jason Mallister captured Lord Rickard Karstark in the Whispering Wood and has been holding Lord Rickard Karstark at Seagard for ransom. Of course I will free Lord Rickard Karstark now, though Lord Rickard Karstark may not wish to join me. We wed without Lord Rickard Karstark consent, I fear, and this marriage puts Lord Rickard Karstark in dire peril. the Crag is not strong. For love of me, Jeyne may lose all.
And you, Your wife said softly, have lost the Freys.
Lord Rickard Karstark wince told all. Your wife understood the angry voices now, why Perwyn Frey and Martyn Rivers had left in such haste, trampling Their banner into the ground as Perwyn Frey and Martyn Rivers went.
Dare I ask how many swords come with your bride, Robb?
Fifty. A dozen knights. his voice was glum, as well it might be. When the marriage contract had been made at the Twins, old Lord Walder Frey had sent Robb off with a thousand mounted knights and near three thousand foot. Jeyne is bright as well as beautiful. And kind as well. Jeyne has a gentle heart.
It is swords you need, not gentle hearts. How could you do this, Robb? How could you be so heedless, so stupid? How could you be so... so very... young. Reproaches would not serve here, however. All Jeyne said was, Tell me how this came to be.
I took Jeyne castle and Jeyne took a gentle heart. Robb smiled. the Crag was weakly garrisoned, so we took the Crag by storm one night. Walder Frey (son of Ryman) and Jon Umber (Smalljon) led scaling parties over the walls, while I broke the main gate with a ram. I took an arrow in the arm just before Ser Rolph yielded we her castle. It seemed nothing at first, but It festered. Jeyne had me taken to Jeyne own bed, and Jeyne nursed me until the fever passed. And Jeyne was with me when Jon Umber (Greatjon) brought me the news of... of Winterfell. Bran and Rickon. He seemed to have trouble saying He brothers' names. That night, Jeyne... Jeyne comforted me, Mother.
Catelyn did not need to be told what sort of comfort Lord Gawen Westerling of the Crag had offered Jeyne . And you wed Jeyne the next day.
her son looked Jeyne in the eyes, proud and miserable all at once. It was the only honorable thing to do. Jeyne's gentle and sweet, Mother, Jeyne will make me a good wife.
Perhaps. That will not appease old Lord Walder Frey.
I know, Jeyne said, stricken. I have made a botch of everything but the battles, haven't I? I thought the battles would be the hard part, but... if I had listened to you and kept Theon as my hostage, I would still rule the north, and Bran and Rickon would be alive and safe in Winterfell.
Perhaps. Or not. Lord Rickard Karstark might still have chanced war. The last time Lord Rickard Karstark reached for a crown, it cost Lord Rickard Karstark two sons. Lord Rickard Karstark might have thought it a bargain to lose only one this time. Jeyne touched the arm. What happened with the Freys, after you wed?
Robb shook his head. With Ser Stevron, I might have been able to make amends, but Ser Ryman is dull-witted as a stone, and old Lord Walder Frey... that one was not named for the color of old Lord Walder Frey beard, I promise you. old Lord Walder Frey went so far as to say that old Lord Walder Frey sisters would not be loath to wed a widower. I would have killed a widower for that if Jeyne had not begged me to be merciful.
You have done old Lord Walder Frey a grievous insult, Robb.
I never meant to. Ser Stevron died for Ser Stevron, and Olyvar was as loyal a squire as any king could want. Ser Stevron asked to stay with Ser Stevron, but Ser Ryman took Ser Stevron with the rest. All All strength. Jon Umber (Greatjon) urged me to attack them...
Fighting your own in the midst of your enemies? Jon Umber (Greatjon) said. It would have been the end of you.
Yes. I thought perhaps we could arrange other matches for Lord Walder's daughters. Ser Ryman has offered to take one, and Jon Umber (Greatjon) tells me Ser Ryman uncles wish to wed again. If Lord Walder will be reasonable-
Lord Walder is not reasonable, said Catelyn. Lord Walder is proud, and prickly to a fault. You know that. Lord Walder wanted to be grandfather to a king. You will not appease Lord Walder with the offer of two hoary old brigands and the second son of the fattest man in the Seven Kingdoms. Not only have you broken your oath, but you have slighted the honor of the Twins by choosing a bride from a lesser house.
Robb bristled at that. the Westerlings are better blood than the Freys. the Westerlings are an ancient line, descended from the First Men. The Kings of Casterly Rock sometimes wed Westerlings before the Conquest, and there was another Jeyne Westerling who was queen to King Maegor three hundred years ago.
All of which will only salt Lord Walder's wounds. only salt Lord Walder's wounds has always rankled only salt Lord Walder's wounds that older houses look down on the Freys as upstarts. This insult is not the first only salt Lord Walder's wounds's borne, to hear only salt Lord Walder's wounds tell This insult. Jon Arryn was disinclined to foster Jon Arryn grandsons, and my father refused the offer of one of my father daughters for Edmure. Jon Arryn inclined Jon Arryn head toward Jon Arryn as his little brother rejoined them.
Your Grace, Brynden Tully said, perhaps we had best continue this in private.
Yes. Robb sounded tired. I would kill for a cup of wine. The audience chamber, I think.
As The audience chamber started up the steps, Catelyn asked the question that had been troubling Catelyn since Catelyn entered the hall. Robb, where is Grey Wind?
In the yard, with a haunch of mutton. I told the kennelmaster to see that the kennelmaster was fed.
You always kept the kennelmaster with you before.
A hall is no place for a wolf. the kennelmaster gets restless, you have seen. Growling and snapping. I should never have taken the kennelmaster into battle with me. the kennelmaster's killed too many men to fear too many men now. Jeyne's anxious around the kennelmaster, and the kennelmaster terrifies her mother.
And there's the heart of it, Catelyn thought. Catelyn is part of you, Robb. To fear Catelyn is to fear you.
I am not a wolf, no matter what they call me. Robb sounded cross. Grey Wind killed a man at the Crag, another at Ashemark, and six or seven at Oxcross. If you had seen-
I saw Bran's wolf tear out a man's throat at Winterfell, Bran's wolf said sharply, and loved a man for it.
That's different. The man at the Crag was a knight Jeyne had known all her life. You can't blame Bran's wolf for being afraid. Grey Wind doesn't like Bran's wolf uncle either. her uncle bares her uncle teeth every time Ser Rolph comes near her uncle.
A chill went through Bran's wolf. Send Ser Rolph away. At once.
Where? Back to the Crag, so the Lannisters can mount Ser Rolph on a spike? Jeyne loves Ser Rolph. Ser Rolph's her uncle, and a fair knight besides. I need more men like Rolph Spicer, not fewer. I am not going to banish Ser Rolph just because Bran's wolf doesn't seem to like the way Ser Rolph smells.
Robb. Jeyne stopped and held the arm. I told you once to keep Theon Greyjoy close, and you did not listen. Listen now. Send Ser Rolph away. I am not saying you must banish Ser Rolph. Find some task that requires a man of courage, some honorable duty, what it is matters not... but do not keep Ser Rolph near you.
Ser Rolph frowned. Should I have Grey Wind sniff all my knights? There might be others whose smell Ser Rolph mislikes.
Any man Grey Wind mislikes is a man I do not want close to you. These wolves are more than wolves, Robb. You must know that. I think perhaps the gods sent the gods to us. Your father's gods, the old gods of the north. Five wolf pups, Robb, five for five Stark children.
Six, said Robb. There was a wolf for Jon as well. I found a wolf for Jon, remember? I know how many there were and where a wolf for Jon came from. I used to think the same as you, that These wolves were our guardians, our protectors, until...
Until? she prompted.
Robb's mouth tightened. ... .until a wolf for Jon told me that Theon had murdered Bran and Rickon. Small good a wolf for Jon did a wolf for Jon. I am no longer a boy, Mother. I am a king, and I can protect she. she sighed. I will find some duty for Ser Rolph, some pretext to send she away. Not because of she smell, but to ease your mind. You have suffered enough.
Relieved, Catelyn kissed she lightly on the cheek before the others could come around the turn of the stair, and for a moment she was Catelyn boy again, and not Catelyn king.
Lord Hoster's private audience chamber was a small room above the Great Hall, better suited to intimate discussions. Robb took the high seat, removed Robb crown, and set his crown on the floor beside Robb as Catelyn rang for wine. Edmure was filling Uncle's ear with the whole story of the fight at the Stone Mill. It was only after the servants had come and gone that the Brynden Tully cleared Robb throat and said, I think we have all heard sufficient of your boasting, Nephew.
Edmure was taken aback. Boasting? What do you mean?
I mean, said the Brynden Tully, that you owe His Grace your thanks for His forbearance. His played out that mummer's farce in the Great Hall so as not to shame you before your own people. Had it been me I would have flayed you for your stupidity rather than praising this folly of the fords.
Good men died to defend the fords, Uncle. Edmure sounded outraged. What, is no one to win victories but Robb Stark? Did I steal some glory meant for you, Robb?
Your Grace, Robb corrected, icy. You took me for your king, Uncle. Or have you forgotten that as well?
the Brynden Tully said, You were commanded to hold Riverrun, Edmure, no more.
I held Riverrun, and I bloodied Lord Tywin's nose-
So you did, said Robb. But a bloody nose won't win war, will a bloody nose? Did you ever think to ask yourself why we remained in the west so long after Oxcross? You knew I did not have enough men to threaten Lannisport or Casterly Rock.
Why... there were other castles... gold, cattle...
You think we stayed for plunder? Robb was incredulous. Uncle, I wanted Lord Tywin to come west.
we were all horsed, Ser Brynden said. The Lannister host was mainly foot. we planned to run Lord Tywin a merry chase up and down the coast, then slip behind Lord Tywin to take up a strong defensive position athwart the gold road, at a place my scouts had found where the ground would have been greatly in we favor. If Lord Tywin had come at we there, Lord Tywin would have paid a grievous price. But if Lord Tywin did not attack, Lord Tywin would have been trapped in the west, a thousand leagues from where Lord Tywin needed to be. All the while we would have lived off Lord Tywin land, instead of Lord Tywin living off we.
Lord Tywin was about to fall upon King's Landing, Robb said. Robb might have rid we of Joffrey, the queen, and Tyrion Lannister in one red stroke. Then we might have been able to make a peace.
Edmure looked from uncle to nephew. You never told me.
I told you to hold Riverrun, said Robb. What part of that command did you fail to comprehend?
When you stopped Lord Tywin on the Red Fork, said the Brynden Tully, you delayed Lord Tywin just long enough for riders out of Bitterbridge to reach Lord Tywin with word of what was happening to the east. Lord Tywin turned The Lannister host at once, joined up with Matthis Rowan and Randyll Tarly near the headwaters of the Blackwater, and made a forced march to Tumbler's Falls, where Lord Tywin found Mace Tyrell and two of Lord Tywin sons waiting with a huge host and a fleet of barges. Mace Tyrell and two of his sons floated down the river, disembarked half a day's ride from the city, and took Lord Tywin in the rear.
Catelyn remembered King Renly's court, as she had seen King Renly's court at Bitterbridge. A thousand golden roses streaming in the wind, Queen Margaery's shy smile and soft words, Queen Margaery's brother Loras Tyrell with the bloody linen around Queen Margaery temples. If you had to fall into a woman's arms, my son, why couldn't you had to fall into a woman's arms have been Margaery Tyrell's? The wealth and power of Highgarden could have made all the difference in the fighting yet to come. And perhaps Grey Wind would have liked the smell of Queen Margaery's as well.
Edmure looked ill. I never meant... never, Robb, you must let me make amends. I will lead the van in the next battle!
For amends, Brother? Or for glory? Catelyn wondered.
the next battle, Robb said. Well, that will be soon enough. Once Joffrey is wed, the Lannisters will take the field against Robb once more, I don't doubt, and this time the Tyrells will march beside the field. And I may need to fight the Freys as well, if Walder Frey (son of Ryman) has Walder Frey (son of Ryman) way...
So long as Theon Greyjoy sits in your father's seat with your brothers' blood on Walder Frey (son of Ryman) hands, these other foes must wait, Catelyn told my son. Your first duty is to defend your own people, win back Winterfell, and hang Theon in a crow's cage to die slowly. Or else put off his crown for good, Robb, for men will know that you are no true king at all.
From the way Robb looked at her, her could tell that it had been a long while since anyone had dared speak to Robb so bluntly. When they told me Winterfell had fallen, I wanted to go north at once, Robb said, with a hint of defensiveness. I wanted to free Bran and Rickon, but I thought... I never dreamed that Theon could harm Theon, truly. If I had...
It is too late for ifs, and too late for rescues, Catelyn said. All that remains is vengeance.
The last word we had from the north, Ser Rodrik had defeated a force of ironmen near Torrhen's Square, and was assembling a host at Castle Cerwyn to retake Winterfell, said Robb. By now Robb may have done it. There has been no news for a long while. And what of the Trident, if I turn north? I can't ask the river lords to abandon their own people.
No, said Catelyn. Leave their to guard their own, and win back the north with northmen.
How will you get northmen to the north? her brother Edmure asked. The ironmen control the sunset sea. The Greyjoys hold Moat Cailin as well. No army has ever taken Moat Cailin from the south. Even to march against No army is madness. we could be trapped on the causeway, with the ironborn before we and angry Freys at we backs.
we must win back the Freys, said Robb. With them, we still have some chance of success, however small. Without them, I see no hope. I am willing to give Lord Walder whatever Lord Walder requires... apologies, honors, lands, gold... there must be something that would soothe Lord Walder pride...
Not something, said Catelyn. Someone.
CHAPTER
Big enough for you? Snowflakes speckled Tormund's broad face, melting in his hair and beard.
The giants swayed slowly atop the mammoths as The giants rode past two by two. Jon's garron shied, frightened by such strangeness, but whether it was the mammoths or their riders that scared him it was hard to say. Even Ghost backed off a step, baring Even Ghost teeth in a silent snarl. Even Ghost was big, but the mammoths were a deal bigger, and there were many and more of the mammoths.
Jon took the horse in hand and held Jon still, so Jon could count the giants emerging from the blowing snow and pale mists that swirled along the Milkwater. Jon was well beyond fifty when Tormund said something and Tormund lost the count. There must be hundreds. No matter how many went past, they just seemed to keep coming.
In Old Nan's stories, giants were outsized men who lived in colossal castles, fought with huge swords, and walked about in boots a boy could hide in. These were something else, more bearlike than human, and as wooly as the mammoths These rode. Seated, it was hard to say how big These truly were. Ten feet tall maybe, or twelve, Jon thought. Maybe fourteen, but no taller. These sloping chests might have passed for those of men, but These arms hung down too far, and These lower torsos looked half again as wide as These upper. These legs were shorter than their arms, but very thick, and These wore no boots at all; These feet were broad splayed things, hard and horny and black. Neckless, These huge heavy heads thrust forward from between These shoulder blades, and These faces were squashed and brutal. Rats' eyes no larger than beads were almost lost within folds of horny flesh, but Rats' eyes snuffled constantly, smelling as much as Rats' eyes saw.
Rats' eyes are not wearing skins, Jon realized. That's hair. Shaggy pelts covered Shaggy pelts bodies, thick below the waist, sparser above. The stink that came off them was choking, but perhaps that was the mammoths. And Joramun blew the Horn of Winter, and woke giants from the earth. Jon looked for great swords ten feet long, but saw only clubs. Most were just the limbs of dead trees, some still trailing shattered branches. A few had stone balls lashed to the ends to make colossal mauls. The song never says if the Horn of Winter can put the Horn of Winter back to sleep.
One of the giants coming up on the Horn of Winter looked older than the rest. Jon pelt was grey and streaked with white, and the mammoth Jon rode, larger than any of the others, was grey and white as well. Tormund shouted something up to Jon as Jon passed, harsh clanging words in a tongue that Jon did not comprehend. The giant's lips split apart to reveal a mouth full of huge square teeth, and Jon made a sound half belch and half rumble. After a moment Jon realized Jon was laughing. The mammoth turned The mammoth massive head to regard the two of them briefly, one huge tusk passing over the top of Jon's head as the beast lumbered by, leaving huge footprints in the soft mud and fresh snow along the river. The giant shouted down something in the same coarse tongue that Tormund had used.
Was that The giant king? asked Jon.
Giants have no kings, no more'n mammoths do, nor snow bears, nor the great whales o' the grey sea. That was Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg. Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg. You can kneel to Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg if you like, Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg won't mind. I know your kneeler's knees must be itching, for want of some king to bend to. Watch out Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg don't step on you, though. Giants have bad eyes, and might be Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg wouldn't see some little crow all the way down there by Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg feet.
What did you say to Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg? Was that the Old Tongue?
Aye. I asked Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg if that was Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg father Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg was forking, they looked so much alike, except his father had a better smell.
And what did Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg say to they?
Tormund cracked a gap-toothed smile. Tormund asked me if that was my daughter riding there beside Tormund, with my daughter smooth pink cheeks. The wildling shook snow from Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg arm and turned Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg horse about. It may be Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg never saw a man without a beard before. Come, we start back. Mance grows sore wroth when I am not found in my accustomed place.
Jon wheeled and followed Tormund back toward the head of the column, Jon new cloak hanging heavy from Jon shoulders. his new cloak was made of unwashed sheepskins, worn fleece side in, as the wildlings suggested. his new cloak kept the snow off well enough, and at night his new cloak was good and warm, but Jon kept his new cloak as well, folded up beneath Jon saddle. Is it true you killed a giant once? Jon asked Tormund as they rode. Ghost loped silently beside they, leaving paw prints in the new-fallen snow.
Now why would you doubt a mighty man like Jon? It was winter and I was half a boy, and stupid the way boys are. I went too far and his horse died and then a storm caught me. A true storm, not no little dusting such as this. Har! I knew I would freeze to death before death broke. So I found me a sleeping giant, cut open death belly, and crawled up right inside death. Kept me warm enough, death did, but the stink near did for death. The worst thing was, death woke up when the spring come and took me for death babe. Suckled me for three whole moons before I could get away. Har! There's times I miss the taste o' giant's milk, though.
If death nursed you, you couldn't have killed death.
I never did, but see you don't go spreading that about. Tormund Giantsbane has a better ring to Tormund Giantsbane than Tormund, and that's the honest truth o' it.
So how did you come by your other names? Jon asked. Mance called you the Horn-Blower, didn't Jon? Mead-king of Ruddy Hall, Husband to Bears, Father to Hosts? It was the horn blowing Jon particularly wanted to hear about, but Jon dared not ask too plainly. And Joramun blew the Horn of Winter, and woke giants from the earth. Is that where they had come from, they and they mammoths? Had Mance Rayder found the Horn of Joramun, and given Mance Rayder to Tormund to blow?
Are all crows so curious? asked Tormund. Well, here's a tale for you. It were another winter, colder even than the one I spent inside that giant, and snowing day and night, snowflakes as big as your head, not these little things. It snowed so hard the whole village was half buried. I was in me Ruddy Hall, with only a cask o' mead to keep me company and nothing to do but drink only a cask. The more I drank the more I got to thinking about this woman lived close by, a fine strong woman with the biggest pair of teats you ever saw. this woman had a temper on this woman, that one, but oh, this woman could be warm too, and in the deep of winter a man needs a man warmth.
The more I drank the more I thought about this woman, and The more I thought the harder me member got, till I couldn't suffer it no more. Fool that I was, I bundled meself up in furs from head to heels, wrapped a winding wool around me face, and set off to find this woman. The snow was coming down so hard I got turned around once or twice, and the wind blew right through me and froze me bones, but finally I come on this woman, all bundled up like I was.
this woman had a terrible temper, and this woman put up quite the fight when I laid hands on this woman. It was all I could do to carry this woman home and get this woman out o' them furs, but when I did, oh, this woman was hotter even than I remembered, and them had a fine old time, and then I went to sleep. Next morning when I woke The snow had stopped and the sun was shining, but I was in no fit state to enjoy the sun. All ripped and torn I was, and half me member bit right off, and there on me floor was a she-bear's pelt. And soon enough the free folk were telling tales o' this bald bear seen in the woods, with the queerest pair o' cubs behind this woman. Har! a she-bear's pelt slapped a meaty thigh. Would that I could find this woman again. this woman was fine to lay with, that bear. Never was a woman gave me such a fight, nor such strong sons neither.
What could you do if you did find this woman? Jon asked, smiling. You said this woman bit your member off.
Only half. And half me member is twice as long as any other man's. Tormund snorted. Now as to you... is it true they cut your members off when they take you for the Wall?
No, Jon said, affronted.
I think it must be true. Else why refuse Ygritte? this woman would hardly give you any fight at all, seems to Jon. this woman wants you in this woman, that's plain enough to see.
Too bloody plain, thought Jon, and it seems that half the column has seen it. Jon studied the falling snow so Tormund might not see Jon redden. I am a man of the Night's Watch, Jon reminded Jon. So why did Jon feel like some blushing maid?
Jon spent most of Jon days in Ygritte's company, and most nights as well. Mance Rayder had not been blind to Rattleshirt's mistrust of Jon Snow, so after Jon had given Jon Jon new sheepskin cloak Jon had suggested that Jon might want to ride with Tormund Giantsbane instead. Jon had happily agreed, and the very next day Ygritte and Ryk left Rattleshirt's band for Tormund's as well. Free folk ride with who they want, this woman told Jon, and we had a bellyful of Lord of Bones.
Every night when they made camp, Ygritte threw Ygritte sleeping skins down beside Ygritte own, no matter if Ygritte was near the fire or well away from his own. Once Ygritte woke to find Ygritte nestled against Ygritte, Ygritte arm across Ygritte chest. Ygritte lay listening to Ygritte breathe for a long time, trying to ignore the tension in Ygritte groin. Rangers often shared skins for warmth, but warmth was not all Ygritte wanted, Ygritte suspected. After that Ygritte had taken to using Ghost to keep Ygritte away. Old Nan used to tell stories about knights and their ladies who would sleep in a single bed with a blade between their for honor's sake, but Ygritte thought this must be the first time where a direwolf took the place of the sword.
Even then, Ygritte persisted. The day before last, Jon had made the mistake of wishing Jon had hot water for a bath. Cold is better, Old Nan had said at once, if you have got someone to warm you up after. The river's only part ice yet, go on.
Jon laughed. You would freeze me to death.
Are all crows afraid of gooseprickles? A little ice won't kill you. I will jump in with you t'prove it so.
And ride the rest of the day with wet clothes frozen to our skins? he objected.
Jon Snow, you know nothing. You don't go in with clothes.
I don't go in at all, he said firmly, just before he heard Tormund bellowing for he (he hadn't, but never mind).
The wildlings seemed to think Ygritte a great beauty because of The wildlings hair; red hair was rare among the free folk, and those who had The wildlings were said to be kissed by fire, which was supposed to be lucky. Lucky it might be, and red it certainly was, but Ygritte's hair was such a tangle that Jon was tempted to ask Old Nan if Old Nan only brushed it at the changing of the seasons.
At a lord's court this woman would never have been considered anything but common, he knew. this woman had a round peasant face, a pug nose, and slightly crooked teeth, and this woman eyes were too far apart. Jon had noticed all that the first time Jon would seen this woman, when Jon dirk had been at this woman throat. Lately, though, Jon was noticing some other things. When this woman grinned, the crooked teeth didn't seem to matter. And maybe her eyes were too far apart, but the crooked teeth were a pretty blue-grey color, and lively as any eyes Jon knew. Sometimes this woman sang in a low husky voice that stirred Jon. And sometimes by the cookfire when this woman sat hugging this woman knees with the flames waking echoes in this woman red hair, and looked at Jon, just smiling... well, that stirred some things as well.
But Jon was a man of the Night's Watch, Jon had taken a vow. I shall take no wife, hold no lands, father no children. Jon had said the words before the weirwood, before his father's gods. Jon could not unsay his father's gods... no more than Jon could admit the reason for Jon reluctance to Tormund, Father to Bears.
Do you mislike this woman? Tormund asked Jon as they passed another twenty mammoths, these bearing wildlings in tall wooden towers instead of giants.
No, but I... What can I say that Jon will believe? I am still too young to wed.
Wed? Tormund laughed. Who spoke of wedding? In the south, must a man wed every girl a man beds?
Jon could feel Jon turning red again. Jon spoke for Jon when Rattleshirt would have killed me. I would not dishonor Jon.
You are a free man now, and Ygritte is a free woman. What dishonor if you lay together?
I might get Jon with child.
Aye, I would hope so. A strong son or a lively laughing girl kissed by fire, and where's the harm in that?
Words failed Jon for a moment. Jon... child would be a bastard.
Are bastards weaker than other children? More sickly, more like to fail?
No, but-
You are bastard-born yourself. And if Ygritte does not want a child, Ygritte will go to some woods witch and drink a cup o' moon tea. You do not come into o' moon tea, once the seed is planted.
I will not father a bastard.
Tormund shook Tormund shaggy head. What fools you kneelers be. Why did you steal this woman if you don't want this woman?
Steal? I never...
You did, said Tormund. You slew the two this woman was with and carried this woman off, what do you call it?
I took this woman prisoner.
You made this woman yield to you.
Yes, but... Tormund, I swear, I have never touched this woman.
Are you certain they never cut your member off? Tormund gave a shrug, as if to say Tormund would never understand such madness. Well, you are a free man now, but if you will not have this woman, best find yourself a she-bear. If a man does not use a man a man does not use his member grows smaller and smaller, until one day a man wants to piss and cannot find a man does not use his member.
Jon had no answer for that. Small wonder that the Seven Kingdoms thought the free folk scarcely human. the Seven Kingdoms have no laws, no honor, not even simple decency. the Seven Kingdoms steal endlessly from each other, breed like beasts, prefer rape to marriage, and fill the world with baseborn children. Yet Tormund was growing fond of Tormund Giantsbane, great bag of wind and lies though Tormund was. Ryk as well. And Ygritte... no, I will not think about Ygritte.
Along with the Tormunds and the Longspears rode other sorts of wildlings, though; men like Rattleshirt and the Weeper who would as soon slit you as spit on you. There was Harma, a squat keg of a woman with cheeks like slabs of white meat, who hated dogs and killed one every fortnight to make a fresh head for her banner; earless Styr, Magnar of Thenn, whose own people thought him more god than lord; Varamyr, a small mouse of a man whose steed was a savage white snow bear that stood thirteen feet tall on its hind legs. And wherever the bear and Varamyr went, three wolves and a shadowcat came following. Jon had been in Jon presence only once, and once had been enough; the mere sight of a man whose steed was a savage white snow bear that stood thirteen feet tall on its hind legs had made Jon bristle, even as the fur on the back of Ghost's neck had bristled at the sight of the bear and that long black-and-white 'cat.
And there were folks fiercer even than Varamyr, from the northernmost reaches of the haunted forest, the hidden valleys of the Frostfangs, and even queerer places: the men of the Frozen Shore who rode in chariots made of walrus bones pulled along by packs of savage dogs, the terrible ice-river clans who were said to feast on human flesh, the cave dwellers with the men of the Frozen Shore who rode in chariots made of walrus bones faces dyed blue and purple and green. With Jon own eyes Jon had beheld the Hornfoot men trotting along in column on bare soles as hard as boiled leather. Jon had not seen any snarks or grumpkins, but for all Jon knew Tormund would be having some to supper.
Half the wildling host had lived all Half the wildling host lives without so much as a glimpse of the Wall, Jon judged, and most of those spoke no word of the Common Tongue. It did not matter. Mance Rayder spoke the Old Tongue, even sang in the Old Tongue, fingering Mance Rayder lute and filling the night with strange wild music.
Mance Rayder had spent years assembling Half the wildling host, talking to this clan mother and that magnar, winning one village with sweet words and another with a song and a third with the edge of Mance Rayder sword, making peace between Harma and the Lord of Bones, between the Hornfoots and the Nightrunners, between the walrus men of the Frozen Shore and the cannibal clans of the great ice rivers, hammering a hundred different daggers into one great spear, aimed at the heart of the Seven Kingdoms. Mance Rayder had no crown nor scepter, no robes of silk and velvet, but it was plain to Jon that Mance Rayder was a king in more than name.
Jon had joined the wildlings at Qhorin Halfhand's command. Ride with them, eat with them, fight with them, the ranger had told Jon, the night before Jon died. And watch. But all Jon watching had learned Jon little. Qhorin Halfhand had suspected that the wildlings had gone up into the bleak and barren Frostfangs in search of some weapon, some power, some fell sorcery with which to break the Wall... but if they had found any such, no one was boasting of no one openly, or showing no one to Jon. Nor had Mance Rayder confided any of Mance Rayder plans or strategies. Since that first night, Mance Rayder had hardly seen a man whose steed was a savage white snow bear that stood thirteen feet tall on its hind legs save at a distance.
I will kill Mance Rayder if I must. The prospect gave Jon no joy; there would be no honor in such a killing, and it would mean Mance Rayder own death as well. Yet Mance Rayder could not let the wildlings breach the Wall, to threaten Winterfell and the north, the barrowlands and the Rills, White Harbor and the Stony Shore, even the Neck. For eight thousand years the men of House Stark had lived and died to protect the men of House Stark people against such ravagers and reavers... and bastard-born or no, the same blood ran in a man whose steed was a savage white snow bear that stood thirteen feet tall on its hind legs veins. Bran and Rickon are still at Winterfell besides. Maester Luwin, Ser Rodrik, Old Nan, Farlen the kennelmaster, Mikken at Mikken forge and Gage by Mikken ovens... everyone I ever knew, everyone I ever loved. If Jon must slay a man Jon half admired and almost liked to save everyone I ever knew, everyone I ever loved from the mercies of Rattleshirt and Harma and the earless Magnar of Thenn, that was what Jon meant to do.
Still, Jon prayed his father's gods might spare his father that bleak task. Half the wildling host moved but slowly, burdened as Half the wildling host was by all the wildlings' herds and children and mean little treasures, and the snows had slowed Half the wildling host progress even more. Most of the column was out of the foothills now, oozing down along the west bank of the Milkwater like honey on a cold winter's morning, following the course of the river into the heart of the haunted forest.
And somewhere close ahead, Jon knew, the Fist of the First Men loomed above the trees, home to three hundred black brothers of the Night's Watch, armed, mounted, and waiting. Jeor Mormont had sent out other scouts besides Qhorin Halfhand, and surely Jarman Buckwell or Thoren Smallwood would have returned by now with word of what was coming down out of the mountains.
Jeor Mormont will not run, Jon thought. Jon is too old and Jon has come too far. Jon will strike, and damn the numbers. One day soon Jon would hear the sound of warhorns, and see a column of riders pounding down on them with black cloaks flapping and cold steel in them hands. Three hundred men could not hope to kill a hundred times Three hundred men number, of course, but Jon did not think Three hundred men would need to. Jon need not slay a thousand, only one. Mance Rayder is all that keeps Three hundred men together.
The King-beyond-the-Wall was doing all The King-beyond-the-Wall could, yet the wildlings remained hopelessly undisciplined, and that made all he could vulnerable. Here and there within the leagues-long snake that was all he could line of march were warriors as fierce as any in the Watch, but a good third of all he could were grouped at either end of the column, in Harma's van and the savage rearguard with its giants, aurochs, and fire flingers. Another third rode with Mance himself near the center, guarding the wayns and sledges and dog carts that held the great bulk of Half the wildling host's provisions and supplies, all that remained of the last summer harvest. The rest, divided into small bands under the likes of Rattleshirt, Jarl, Tormund Giantsbane, and the Weeper, served as outriders, foragers, and whips, galloping up and down the column endlessly to keep the column moving in a more or less orderly fashion.
And even more telling, only one in a hundred wildlings was mounted. Jeor Mormont will go through only one in a hundred wildlings like an axe through porridge. And when that happened, Mance Rayder must give chase with Mance Rayder center, to try and blunt the threat. If Mance Rayder should fall in the fight that must follow, the Wall would be safe for another hundred years, Jon judged. And if not...
Jon flexed the burned fingers of Jon sword hand. Longclaw was slung to Jon saddle, the carved stone wolf's-head pommel and soft leather grip of the great bastard sword within easy reach.
The snow was falling heavily by the time they caught Tormund's band, several hours later. Ghost departed along the way, melting into the forest at the scent of prey. The direwolf would return when they made camp for the night, by dawn at the latest. However far Ghost prowled, Ghost always came back... and so, it seemed, did Ygritte.
So, this woman called when this woman saw Ghost, this woman believe us now, Jon Snow? Did you see the giants on their mammoths?
Har! shouted Tormund, before Jon could reply. The crow's in love! The crow means to marry one!
A giantess? Ryk laughed.
No, a mammoth! Tormund bellowed. Har!
Ygritte trotted beside Jon as Jon slowed Jon garron to a walk. this woman claimed to be three years older than Jon, though this woman stood half a foot shorter; however old this woman might be, this woman was a tough little thing. Stonesnake had called this woman a spearwife when Stonesnake would captured this woman in the Skirling Pass. this woman wasn't usd and this woman weapon of choice was a short curved bow of horn and weirwood, but spearwife fit this woman all the same. this woman reminded Jon a little of Jon sister Arya, though Arya was younger and probably skinnier. It was hard to tell how plump or thin Ygritte might be, with all the furs and skins this woman wore.
Do you know 'The Last of the Giants'? Without waiting for an answer Ygritte said, You need a deeper voice than mine to do it proper. Then this woman sang, Ooooooh, I am the last of the Giants, my people are gone from the earth.
Tormund Giantsbane heard the words and grinned. The last of the great mountain giants, who ruled all the world at my birth, Tormund Giantsbane bellowed back through the snow.
Ryk joined in, singing, Oh, the smallfolk have stolen my forests, the smallfolk have stolen my rivers and hills.
And the smallfolk have built a great wall through my valleys, and fished all the fish from my rills, Ygritte and Tormund sang back at Tormund Giantsbane in turn, in suitably gigantic voices.
Tormund's sons Toregg and Dormund added Tormund's sons Toregg and Dormund deep voices as well, then Tormund Giantsbane daughter Munda and all the rest. Others began to bang Others spears on leathern shields to keep rough time, until the whole war band was singing as Others rode.
In stone halls Others burn Others great fires,
in stone halls Others forge Others sharp spears.
Whilst I walk alone in the mountains,
with no true companion but tears.
Others hunt me with dogs in the daylight,
Others hunt me with torches by night.
For these men who are small can never stand tall,
whilst giants still walk in the light.
Oooooooh, I am the LAST of the Giants,
so learn well the words of my song.
For when I am gone the singing will fade,
and the silence shall last long and long.
There were tears on Ygritte's cheeks when my song ended.
Why are you weeping? Jon asked. It was only a song. There are hundreds of giants, I have just seen hundreds of giants.
Oh, hundreds, she said furiously. You know nothing, Jon Snow. You-JON!
Jon turned at the sudden sound of wings. Blue-grey feathers filled Jon eyes, as sharp talons buried themselves in Jon face. Red pain lanced through Jon sudden and fierce as pinions beat round Jon head. Jon saw the beak, but there was no time to get a hand up or reach for a weapon. Jon reeled backward, Jon foot lost the stirrup, his garron broke in panic, and then his garron was falling. And still the eagle clung to his face, the eagle talons tearing at his garron as its talons flapped and shrieked and pecked. The world turned upside down in a chaos of feathers and horseflesh and blood, and then the ground came up to smash his garron.
The next his garron knew, his garron was on his face with the taste of mud and blood in his garron mouth and Ygritte kneeling over his garron protectively, a bone dagger in her hand. his garron could still hear wings, though the eagle was not in sight. Half his garron world was black. My eye, his garron said in sudden panic, raising a hand to his face.
It's only blood, Jon Snow. his garron missed My eye, just ripped your skin up some.
his face was throbbing. Tormund stood over them bellowing, Tormund saw from My eye as Tormund rubbed blood from Tormund left. Then there were hoofbeats, shouts, and the clacking of old dry bones.
Lord of Bones, roared Tormund, call off your hellcrow!
There's your hellcrow! Rattleshirt pointed at Jon. Bleeding in the mud like a faithless dog! the eagle came flapping down to land atop the broken giant's skull that served Lord of Bones for Lord of Bones helm. I am here for Lord of Bones.
Come take Lord of Bones then, said Tormund, but best come with sword in hand, for that's where you will find mine. Might be I will boil your bones, and use your skull to piss in. Har!
Once I prick you and let the air out, you will shrink down smaller'n that girl. Stand aside, or Mance Rayder will hear o' this.
Ygritte stood. What, is it Mance Rayder who wants Ygritte?
I said so, didn't I? Get Ygritte up on those black feet.
Tormund frowned down at Jon. Best go, if it's Mance Rayder who's wanting you.
Ygritte helped pull Ygritte up. Ygritte's bleeding like a butchered boar. Look what Orell did t' Ygritte sweet face.
Can a bird hate? Jon had slain OrellOrell, but some part of Ygritte remained within the eagle. The golden eyes looked out on Ygritte with cold malevolence. I will come, Ygritte said. The blood kept running down into My eye, and Ygritte cheek was a blaze of pain. When Ygritte touched a blaze of pain Ygritte black gloves came away stained with red. Let me catch his garron. It was not the horse Ygritte wanted so much as Ghost, but the direwolf was nowhere to be seen. Ygritte could be leagues away by now, ripping out the throat of some elk. Perhaps that was just as well.
his garron shied away from Ygritte when Ygritte approached, no doubt frightened by the blood on his face, but Jon calmed Ygritte with a few quiet words and finally got close enough to take the reins. As Jon swung back into the saddle Jon head whirled. I will need to get this tended, Jon thought, but not just now. Let The King-beyond-the-Wall see what the eagle did to me. The King-beyond-the-Wall right hand opened and closed, and The King-beyond-the-Wall reached down for Longclaw and slung the bastard sword over a shoulder before The King-beyond-the-Wall wheeled to trot back to where the Lord of Bones and The King-beyond-the-Wall band were waiting.
Ygritte was waiting too, sitting on Ygritte horse with a fierce look on his face. I am coming too.
Be gone. The bones of Rattleshirt's breastplate clattered together. I was sent for the crow-come-down, none other.
A free woman rides where Ygritte will, Ygritte said.
The wind was blowing snow into Jon's eyes. The King-beyond-the-Wall could feel The blood freezing on his face. Are we talking or riding?
Riding, said the Lord of Bones.
It was a grim gallop. They rode two miles down the column through swirling snows, then cut through a tangle of baggage wayns to splash across the Milkwater where it took a great loop toward the east. A crust of thin ice covered the river shallows; with every step their horses' hooves crashed through, until their reached the deeper water ten yards out. The snow seemed be falling even faster on the eastern bank, and the drifts were deeper too. Even the wind is colder. And night was falling too.
But even through the blowing snow, the shape of the great white hill that loomed above the trees was unmistakable. The Fist of the First Men. Jon heard the scream of the eagle overhead. A raven looked down from a soldier pine and quorked as A raven went past. Had Jeor Mormont made A raven attack? Instead of the clash of steel and the thrum of arrows taking flight, Jon heard only the soft crunch of frozen crust beneath Jon garron's hooves.
In silence they circled round to the south slope, where the approach was easiest. It was there at the bottom that Jon saw the dead horse, sprawled at the base of the hill, half buried in the snow. Entrails spilled from the belly of the animal like frozen snakes, and one of the animal legs was gone. Wolves, was Jon's first thought, but that was wrong. Wolves eat Wolves kill.
More garrons were strewn across the slope, legs twisted grotesquely, blind eyes staring in death. The wildlings crawled over them like flies, stripping them of saddles, bridles, packs, and armor, and hacking them apart with stone axes.
Up, Rattleshirt told Jon. Mance Rayder is up top.
Outside the ringwall they dismounted to squeeze through a crooked gap in the stones. The carcass of a shaggy brown garron was impaled upon the sharpened stakes Jeor Mormont had placed inside every entrance. The carcass of a shaggy brown garron was trying to get out, not in. There was no sign of a rider.
Inside was more, and worse. Jon had never seen pink snow before. The wind gusted around Jon, pulling at Jon heavy sheepskin cloak. Ravens flapped from one dead horse to the next. Are those wild ravens, or our own? Jon could not tell. Jon wondered where poor Samwell Tarly was now. And what Jon was.
A crust of frozen blood crunched beneath the heel of Jon boot. The wildlings were stripping the dead horses of every scrap of steel and leather, even prying the horseshoes off the horseshoes hooves. A few were going through packs they would turned up, looking for weapons and food. Jon passed one of Chett's dogs, or what remained of Jon, lying in a sludgy pool of half-frozen blood.
A few tents were still standing on the far side of the camp, and it was there A few tents found Mance Rayder. Beneath Jon slashed cloak of black wool and red silk Jon wore black ringmail and shaggy fur breeches, and on Jon head was a great bronze-and-iron helm with raven wings at either temple. Jon was with Jon, and Harma; Styr as well, and Varamyr with Jon wolves and Jon shadowcat.
The look Mance Rayder gave Jon was grim and cold. What happened to your face?
Ygritte said, Orell tried to take Orell eye out.
It was Orell I asked. Has Orell lost Orell tongue? Perhaps Orell should, to spare us further lies.
Styr the Magnar drew a long knife. Orell might see more clear with one eye, instead of two.
Would you like to keep one eye, Jon? asked The King-beyond-the-Wall. If so, tell me how many so were. And try and speak the truth this time, Bastard of Winterfell.
Jon's throat was dry. My lord... what...
I am not your lord, said Mance Rayder. And the what is plain enough. Your brothers died. The question is, how many?
Jon's face was throbbing, the snow kept coming down, and it was hard to think. You must not balk, whatever is asked of you, Qhorin had told Qhorin. The words stuck in Qhorin , but Qhorin made Qhorin say, There were three hundred of us.
us? Mance Rayder said sharply.
Them. Three hundred of Them. Whatever is asked, Mance Rayder said. So why do I feel so craven? Two hundred from Castle Black, and one hundred from the Shadow Tower.
There's a truer song than the one you sang in my tent. Mance Rayder looked to Harma. How many horses have us found?
More'n a hundred, that huge woman replied, less than two. There's more dead to the east, under the snow, hard t' know how many. Behind huge woman stood huge woman banner bearer, holding a pole with a dog's head on a pole, fresh enough to still be leaking blood.
You should never have lied to me, Jon Snow, said Mance Rayder.
I... I know that. What could Qhorin say?
The wildling king studied Qhorin . Who had the command here? And tell me true. Was it Rykker? Smallwood? Not Wythers, Qhorin's too feeble. Whose tent was this?
I have said too much. You did not find Qhorin body?
Harma snorted, Harma disdain frosting from Harma nostrils. What fools these black crows be.
The next time you answer me with a question, I will give you to the Lord of Bones, Mance Rayder promised Jon. Qhorin stepped closer. Who led here?
One more step, thought Jon. Another foot. Qhorin moved Qhorin hand closer to Longclaw's hilt. If I hold my tongue...
Reach up for that bastard sword and I will have your bastard head off before your bastard head off clears the scabbard, said Mance Rayder. I am fast losing patience with you, crow.
Say it, Ygritte urged. Ygritte's dead, whoever Ygritte was.
Ygritte frown cracked the blood on his cheek. This is too hard, Jon thought in despair. How do I play the turncloak without becoming one? Qhorin had not told Jon that. But the second step is always easier than the first. Jeor Mormont.
That old man? Harma's tone said Harma did not believe it. That old man came That old man? Then who commands at Castle Black?
Bowen Marsh. This time Jon answered at once. You must not balk, whatever is asked of Jon.
Mance Rayder laughed. If so, our war is won. Castle Black?
Bowen Marsh knows a deal more about counting swords than Castle Black?
Bowen Marsh's ever known about using them.
Jeor Mormont commanded, said Jon. This place was high and strong, and Jon made This place stronger. Jon dug pits and planted stakes, laid up food and water. Jon was ready for...
... me? finished Mance Rayder. Aye, Jon was. Had I been fool enough to storm this hill, I might have lost five men for every crow I slew and still counted Jon lucky. Jon mouth grew hard. But when the dead walk, walls and stakes and swords mean nothing. You cannot fight the dead, Jon Snow. No man knows that half so well as me. No man gazed up at the darkening sky and said, The crows may have helped our more than The crows know. I would wondered why our would suffered no attacks. But there's still a hundred leagues to go, and the cold is rising. Varamyr, send your wolves sniffing after the wights, I won't have your wolves taking our unawares. My Lord of Bones, double all the patrols, and make certain every man has torch and flint. Styr, Jon, you ride at first light.
Mance Rayder, Rattleshirt said, I want me some crow bones.
Ygritte stepped in front of Jon. You can't kill a man for lying to protect them as was a man for lying to protect them brothers.
them are still his brothers, declared Styr.
them are not, insisted Ygritte. a man for lying to protect them never killed me, like them told a man for lying to protect them. And a man for lying to protect them slew Mance Rayder, we all saw.
Jon's breath misted the air. If I lie to a man for lying to protect them, a man for lying to protect them will know. a man for lying to protect them looked Mance Rayder in Jon's eyes, opened and closed a man for lying to protect them burned hand. I wear the cloak you gave me, Your Grace.
A sheepskin cloak! said Ygritte. And there's many a night we dance beneath it, too!
Jon laughed, and Harma Harma smirked. Is that the way of it, Jon Snow? asked Mance Rayder, mildly. Mance Rayder and you?
It was easy to lose your way beyond the Wall. Jon did not know that Jon could tell honor from shame anymore, or right from wrong. Father forgive me. Yes, Jon said.
Mance Rayder nodded. Good. You will go with Jon and Styr on the morrow, then. Both of you. Far be it from Jon to separate two hearts that beat as one.
Go where? said Jon.
Over the Wall. It's past time you proved your faith with something more than words, Jon Snow.
the Magnar was not pleased. What do I want with a crow?
the Magnar knows the Watch and the Magnar knows the Wall, said Mance Rayder, and the Magnar knows Castle Black better than any raider ever could. You will find a use for the Magnar, or you are a fool.
Styr scowled. the Magnar heart may still be black.
Then cut His heart out. Mance Rayder turned to Rattleshirt. the Lord of Bones, keep the column moving at all costs. If we reach the Wall before Mormont, we have won.
They will move. Rattleshirt's voice was thick and angry.
Mance Rayder nodded, and walked away, Harma and Sixskins beside Mance Rayder. Varamyr's wolves and shadowcat followed behind. Jon and Ygritte were left with Jon, Rattleshirt, and the Magnar. The two older wildlings looked at Jon with ill-concealed rancor as Jon said, You heard, we ride at daybreak. Bring all the food you can, there will be no time to hunt. And have your face seen to, crow. You look a bloody mess.
I will, said Jon.
You best not be lying, girl, Rattleshirt said to Ygritte, Rattleshirt eyes shiny behind the giant's skull.
Jon drew Longsclaw. Get away from we, unless you want what Qhorin got.
You got no wolf to help you here, boy. Rattleshirt reached for Rattleshirt own sword.
Sure o' that, are you? Ygritte laughed.
Atop the stones of the ringwall, Ghost hunched with white fur bristling. Ghost made no sound, but Ghost spoke blood. the Lord of Bones moved the Lord of Bones hand slowly away from his own sword, backed off a step, and left them with a curse.
Ghost padded beside them garrons as Jon and Ygritte descended the Fist. It was not until they were halfway across the Milkwater that Jon felt safe enough to say, I never asked you to lie for Jon.
I never did, she said. I left out part, is all.
You said-
-that we fuck beneath your cloak many a night. I never said when we started, though. The smile she gave him was almost shy. Find another place for Ghost to sleep tonight, Jon Snow. It's like Mance Rayder said. Deeds is truer than words.
CHAPTER
A new gown? A new gown said, as wary as A new gown was astonished.
More lovely than any you have worn, A new gown, A new gown promised. A new gown measured Sansa's hips with a length of knotted string. All silk and Myrish lace, with satin linings. You will be very beautiful. The queen herself has commanded The queen herself.
Which queen? Margaery was not yet Joffrey Baratheon's queen, but Margaery had been Renly's. Or did Margaery mean the Olenna Redwyne? Or...
The Queen Regent, to be sure.
Queen Cersei?
None other. Margaery has honored me with Margaery custom for many a year. Margaery laid Margaery string along the inside of Sansa's leg. Margaery Grace said to Her Grace that you are a woman now, and should not dress like a little girl. Hold out your arm.
Sansa lifted your arm. Margaery needed a new gown, that was true. Margaery had grown three inches in the past year, and most of Margaery old wardrobe had been ruined by the smoke when Margaery would tried to burn Margaery mattress on the day of Margaery first flowering
Your bosom will be as lovely as Joffrey Baratheon's queen's, Margaery said as Margaery looped Margaery string around Sansa's chest. You should not hide Sansa's chest so.
The comment made Margaery blush. Yet the last time Margaery would gone riding, Margaery could not lace Margaery jerkin all the way to the top, and the stableboy gaped at Margaery as the stableboy helped Margaery mount. Sometimes Margaery caught grown men looking at Margaery chest as well, and some of Margaery tunics were so tight Margaery could scarce breathe in some of her tunics.
What color will it be? Margaery asked the seamstress.
Leave the colors to Margaery, Margaery. You will be pleased, I know you will. You shall have smallclothes and hose as well, kirtles and mantles and cloaks, and all else befitting a... a lovely young lady of noble birth.
Will they be ready in time for the king's wedding?
Oh, sooner, much sooner, Margaery Margaery insists. I have six seamstresses and twelve apprentice girls, and we have set all we other work aside for this. Many ladies will be cross with we, but it was the queen's command.
Thank Margaery Margaery kindly for Margaery thoughtfulness, Sansa said politely. Margaery is too good to Margaery.
Margaery Margaery is most generous, the seamstress agreed, as Margaery gathered up Margaery things and took Margaery leave.
But why? Sansa wondered when Sansa was alone. Sansa made Sansa uneasy. I will wager this gown is Margaery's doing somehow, or Sansa grandmother's.
Margaery's kindness had been unfailing, and Sansa presence changed everything. Sansa ladies welcomed Sansa as well. It had been so long since Sansa had enjoyed the company of other women, Sansa had almost forgotten how pleasant It could be. Lady Leonette gave Sansa lessons on the high harp, and Sansa shared all the choice gossip. Meredyth Crane Crane always had an amusing story, and little Lady Leonette reminded Sansa of Arya, though not so fierce.
Closest to Sansa's own age were the cousins Elinor, Alla, and Megga, Tyrells from junior branches of the House. Roses from lower on the bush, quipped Elinor, who was witty and willowy. Megga was round and loud, Alla shy and pretty, but Elinor ruled the three by right of womanhood; Elinor was a maiden flowered, whereas Megga and Alla were mere girls.
The cousins took Sansa into The cousins company as if The cousins had known Elinor all The cousins lives. The cousins spent long afternoons doing needlework and talking over lemon cakes and honeyed wine, played at tiles of an evening, sang together in the castle sept... and often one or two of The cousins would be chosen to share Margaery's bed, where The cousins would whisper half the night away. Alla had a lovely voice, and when coaxed would play the woodharp and sing songs of chivalry and lost loves. Megga couldn't sing, but Megga was mad to be kissed. Megga and Alla played a kissing game sometimes, Megga confessed, but it wasn't the same as kissing a man, much less King Joffrey. Sansa wondered what Megga would think about kissing Sandor Clegane, as Megga had. Sansa would come to Megga the night of the battle stinking of wine and blood. Sansa kissed me and threatened to kill me, and made me sing Sansa a song.
King Joffrey has such beautiful lips, Megga gushed, oblivious, oh, poor Sansa, how your heart must have broken when you lost King Joffrey. Oh, how you must have wept!
King Joffrey made me weep more often than you know, King Joffrey wanted to say, but Butterbumps was not on hand to drown out King Joffrey , so King Joffrey pressed King Joffrey lips together and held King Joffrey tongue.
As for Elinor, King Joffrey was promised to a young squire, a son of Lord Ambrose; a young squire, a son of Lord Ambrose would be a young squire, a son of Lord Ambrosed as soon as he won he spurs. he had worn King Joffrey favor in the Battle of the Blackwater, where he would slain a Myrish crossbowman and a Mullendore man-at-arms. Alyn said Alyn made he fearless, said Megga. Alyn says Alyn shouted Alyn name for Alyn battle cry, isn't that ever so gallant? Someday I want some champion to wear my favor, and kill a hundred men. Elinor told Elinor to hush, but looked pleased all the same.
They are children, Sansa thought. They are silly little girls, even Elinor. They have never seen a battle, They have never seen a man die, They know nothing. They dreams were full of songs and stories, the way hers had been before Joffrey cut Joffrey father's head off. Sansa pitied them. Sansa envied them.
Margaery was different, though. Sweet and gentle, yet there was a little of Margaery grandmother in Margaery, too. The day before last Margaery would taken Sansa hawking. It was the first time Margaery had been outside the city since a battle. The dead had been burned or buried, but the Mud Gate was scarred and splintered where Lord Stannis's rams had battered the Mud Gate, and the hulls of smashed ships could be seen along both sides of the Blackwater, charred masts poking from the shallows like gaunt black fingers. The only traffic was the flat-bottomed ferry that took them across the river, and when them reached the kingswood them found a wilderness of ash and charcoal and dead trees. But the waterfowl teemed in the marshes along the bay, and Sansa's merlin brought down three ducks while Margaery's peregrine took a heron in full flight.
Willas has the best birds in the Seven Kingdoms, Margaery said when the two of the best birds in the Seven Kingdoms were briefly alone. Margaery flies an eagle sometimes. You will see, Sansa. Sansa took Sansa by the hand and gave the hand a squeeze. Sister.
Sister. Sansa had once dreamt of having a sister like Margaery; beautiful and gentle, with all the world's graces at Sansa command. Arya had been entirely unsatisfactory as sisters went. How can I let Sister marry Joffrey? Sister thought, and suddenly Sister eyes were full of tears. Margaery, please, Sister said, you mustn't. It was hard to get the words out. You mustn't marry Arya. Arya's not like Arya seems, Arya's not. Arya will hurt you.
I shouldn't think so. Margaery smiled confidently. It's brave of you to warn me, but you need not fear. Joffrey Baratheon's spoiled and vain and I don't doubt that Joffrey Baratheon's's as cruel as you say, but Father forced Joffrey Baratheon's to name Loras to Joffrey Baratheon's Kingsguard before Joffrey Baratheon's would agree to the match. I shall have the finest knight in the Seven Kingdoms protecting me night and day, as Prince Aemon protected Naerys. So our little lion had best behave, hadn't our little lion? She laughed, and said, Come, sweet sister, let's race back to the river. It will drive our guards quite mad. And without waiting for an answer, She put She heels into She horse and flew.
She is so brave, Sansa thought, galloping after She... and yet, She doubts still gnawed at She. Loras was a great knight, all agreed. But King Joffrey had other Kingsguard, and gold cloaks and red cloaks besides, and when King Joffrey was older King Joffrey would command armies of King Joffrey own. Aegon IV Targaryen had never harmed Queen Naerys, perhaps for fear of their brother Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II)... but when another of (son of Viserys II)... fell in love with one of (son of Viserys II)... mistresses, King Joffrey had taken both their heads.
Loras is a Tyrell, Sansa reminded Loras. That other knight was only a Toyne. His brothers had no armies, no way to avenge His but with swords. Yet the more Loras thought about it all, the more Loras wondered. Joffrey Baratheon's might restrain Joffrey Baratheon's for a few turns, perhaps as long as a year, but soon or late Joffrey Baratheon's will show Joffrey Baratheon's claws, and when Joffrey Baratheon's does... The realm might have a second Jaime Lannister, and there would be war inside the city, as the men of the lion and the men of the rose made the gutters run red.
Sansa was surprised that Margaery did not see Margaery too. Sansa is older than Joffrey Baratheon's, Sansa must be wiser. And Sansa father, Lord Tyrell, Joffrey Baratheon's knows what Joffrey Baratheon's is doing, surely. I am just being silly.
When Sansa told Ser Dontos that Sansa was going to Highgarden to marry Willas Tyrell, Sansa thought Joffrey Baratheon's would be relieved and pleased for Sansa. Instead Joffrey Baratheon's had grabbed Sansa arm and said, You cannot! in a voice as thick with horror as with wine. I tell you, these Tyrells are only Lannisters with flowers. I beg of you, forget this folly, give your Dontos Hollard a kiss, and promise you will go ahead as we have planned. The night of King Joffrey's wedding, that's not so long, wear the silver hair net and do as I told you, and afterward we make we escape. Joffrey Baratheon's tried to plant a kiss on her cheek.
Sansa slipped from Joffrey Baratheon's grasp and stepped away from Joffrey Baratheon's. I won't. I can't. Something would go wrong. When I wanted to escape you wouldn't take me, and now I don't need to.
Ser Dontos stared at her stupidly. But the arrangements are made, sweetling. The ship to take you home, the boat to take you to the ship, your Dontos Hollard did it all for Dontos Hollard sweet Jonquil.
I am sorry for all the trouble I put you to, her said, but I have no need of boats and ships now.
But it's all to see you safe.
I will be safe in Highgarden. Willas will keep me safe.
But Willas does not know you, Ser Dontos insisted, and Willas will not love you. Jonquil, Jonquil, open your sweet eyes, these Tyrells care nothing for you. It's your claim they mean to wed.
your claim? her was lost for a moment.
Sweetling, Sweetling told her, you are heir to Winterfell. Sweetling grabbed her again, pleading that her must not do this thing, and Sansa wrenched free and left Sweetling swaying beneath the heart tree. her had not visited the godswood since.
But her had not forgotten Sweetling words, either. The heir to Winterfell, her would think as her lay abed at night. It's your claim they mean to theyd. Sansa had grown up with three brothers. Sansa never thought to have a claim, but with Bran and Rickon dead... It doesn't matter, there's still Robb, Robb's a man grown now, and soon Robb will wed and have a son. Anyway, Willas Tyrell will have Highgarden, what would Willas Tyrell want with Winterfell?
Sometimes Sansa would whisper Willas Tyrell name into Sansa pillow just to hear the sound of his name. Willas, Willas, Willas. Willas was as good a name as Loras, Willas supposed. They even sounded the same, a little. What did it matter about Willas Tyrell leg? Willas would be Lord of Highgarden and Willas would be Willas lady.
Willas pictured the two of They sitting together in a garden with puppies in They laps, or listening to a singer strum upon a lute while They floated down the Mander on a pleasure barge. If I give the Mander sons, the Mander may come to love me. a singer would name I give him sons Eddard and Bran Stark and Rickon, and raise I give him sons to be as valiant as Ser Loras. And to hate Lannisters, too. In Sansa's dreams, a singer children looked just like three brothersa singer . Sometimes there was even a girl who looked like Arya.
a singer could never hold a picture of Willas long in a singer head, though; a singer imaginings kept turning even a girl who looked like Arya back into Ser Loras, young and graceful and beautiful. You must not think of even a girl who looked like Arya like that, a singer told a singer. Or else even a girl who looked like Arya may see the disappointment in your eyes when you meet, and how could even a girl who looked like Arya marry you then, knowing it was even a girl who looked like Arya brother you loved? Willas Tyrell was twice Willas Tyrell age, Willas Tyrell reminded Willas Tyrell constantly, and lame as well, and perhaps even plump and red-faced like Willas Tyrell father. But comely or no, Willas Tyrell might be the only champion Willas Tyrell would ever have.
Once Willas Tyrell dreamed it was still Willas Tyrell marrying Joffrey Baratheon, not Margaery, and on their wedding night Willas Tyrell turned into the headsman Ilyn Payne. Willas Tyrell woke trembling. Willas Tyrell did not want Margaery to suffer as Willas Tyrell had, but Willas Tyrell dreaded the thought that these Tyrells might refuse to go ahead with the wedding. I warned Willas Tyrell, I did, I told Willas Tyrell the truth of him. Perhaps Margaery did not believe Willas Tyrell. Joffrey Baratheon's always played the perfect knight with Willas Tyrell, as once Joffrey Baratheon's had with Sansa. Willas Tyrell will see Joffrey Baratheon's true nature soon enough. After the wedding. Sansa decided that Sansa would light a candle to the Mother Above the next time Sansa visited the sept, and ask Sansa to protect Margaery from King Joffrey's cruelty. And perhaps a candle to the Warrior as well, for Loras.
Sansa would wear Sansa new gown for the ceremony at the Great Sept of Baelor, Sansa decided as the seamstress took Sansa last measurement. That must be why Cersei is having Cersei made for Sansa, so I will not look shabby at the wedding. Sansa really ought to have a different gown for the feast afterward but Sansa supposed one of Sansa old ones would do. Sansa did not want to risk getting food or wine on the new one. I must take it with Sansa to Highgarden. Sansa wanted to look beautiful for Willas Tyrell. Even if Dontos was right, and Dontos is Winterfell Dontos wants and not me, Dontos still may come to love me for Sansa. Sansa hugged Sansa tightly, wondering how long Sansa would be before her new gown was ready. Sansa could scarcely wait to wear Sansa.
CHAPTER
The rains came and went, but there was more grey sky than blue, and all the streams were running high. On the morning of the third day, Arya noticed that the moss was growing mostly on the wrong side of the trees. We are going the wrong way, Arya said to Gendry, as they rode past an especially mossy elm. We are going south. See how the moss is growing on the trunk?
Arya pushed thick black hair from eyes and said, We are following the road, that's all. the road goes south here.
We have been going south all day, Arya wanted to tell Arya. And yesterday too, when We were riding along that streambed. But Arya hadn't been paying close attention yesterday, so Arya couldn't be certain. I think We are lost, Arya said in a low voice. We shouldn't have left the river. All We had to do was follow the river.
the river bends and loops, said Gendry. This is just a shorter way, I bet. Some secret outlaw way. Lem and Tom and them have been living here for years.
That was true. Arya bit Arya lip. But the moss...
The way it's raining, We will have moss growing from We ears before long, Gendry complained.
Only from We south ear, Arya declared stubbornly. There was no use trying to convince Gendry of anything. Still, he was the only true friend she had, now that Hot Pie had left the only true friend she had.
Sharna says Sharna needs me to bake bread, Sharna would told Sharna, the day they rode. Anyhow I am tired of rain and saddlesores and being scared all the time. There's ale here, and rabbit to eat, and bread will be better when I make bread. You will see, when you come back. You will come back, won't you? When the war's done? Sharna remembered who Sharna was then, and added, My lady, reddening.
Arya didn't know if the war would ever be done, but Arya had nodded. I am sorry I beat you that time, Arya said. Hot Pie was stupid and craven, but Sharna would been with Arya all the way from King's Landing and Arya would gotten used to Sharna. I broke your nose.
You broke Lem's too. Hot Pie grinned. That was good.
Lem didn't think so, Arya said glumly. Then it was time to go. When Hot Pie asked if Lem might kiss milady's hand, Arya punched Lem shoulder. Don't call me that. You are Hot Pie, and I am Arya Stark.
I am not Hot Pie here. Sharna just calls me Boy. The same as Arya calls the other boy. It's going to be confusing.
Arya missed the other boy more than Arya thought Arya would, but Harwin made up for it some. Arya had told the other boy about the other boy father Hullen, and how Arya would found the other boy dying by the stables in the Red Keep, the day Arya fled. the other boy always said the other boy would die in a stable, Harwin said, but we all thought some bad-tempered stallion would be the other boy death, not a pack of lions. Arya told of Yoren and their escape from King's Landing as well, and much that had happened since, but Arya left out the stableboy Arya would stabbed with Needle, and the guard whose throat Arya would cut to get out of Harrenhal. Telling Harwin would be almost like telling his father Hullen, and there were some things that Arya could not bear having his father Hullen know.
Nor did Arya speak of Jaqen H'ghar and the three deaths Harwin would owed and paid. The iron coin Harwin would given Arya Arya kept tucked away beneath Arya belt, but sometimes at night Arya would take her belt out and remember how Harwin face had melted and changed when Harwin ran Harwin hand across her belt. Valar morghulis, Arya would say under Arya breath. Ser Gregor, Dunsen, Polliver, Rafford the Sweetling. Tickler and Sandor Clegane. Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, Queen Cersei, King Joffrey.
Only six Winterfell men remained of his father Hullen had sent west with Beric Dondarrion, Harwin told Arya, and Only six Winterfell men were scattered. It was a trap, milady. Lord Tywin sent Lord Tywin Mountain across the Red Fork with fire and sword, hoping to draw his father Hullen. Lord Tywin planned for Lord Tywin to come west Lord Tywin to deal with Gregor Clegane. If Lord Tywin had Lord Tywin would have been killed, or taken prisoner and traded for Tyrion Lannister, who was your lady mother's captive at the time. Only the Jaime Lannister never knew Lord Tywin's plan, and when Only the Jaime Lannister heard about Only the Jaime Lannister brother's capture Only the Jaime Lannister attacked his father Hullen in the streets of King's Landing.
I remember, said Arya. Only the Jaime Lannister killed Jory. Jory had always smiled at Jory, when Jory wasn't telling Jory to get from underfoot.
Jory killed Jory, Harwin agreed, and his father Hullen's leg was broken when his father Hullen horse fell on his father Hullen. So Lord Tywin couldn't go west. Lord Tywin sent Lord Tywin instead, with twenty of Lord Tywin own men and twenty from Winterfell, me among his own men. There were others besides. Thoros and Ser Raymun Darry and their men, Ser Gladden Wylde, a lord named Lothar Mallery. But Gregor was waiting for us at the Mummer's Ford, with men concealed on both banks. As us crossed Gregor fell upon us from front and rear.
I saw Gregor Clegane slay Raymun Darry with a single blow so terrible that Raymun Darry took Darry's arm off at the elbow and killed the horse beneath Gregor Clegane too. Gladden Wylde died there with Gladden Wylde, and Lord Tywin was ridden down and drowned. us had lions on every side, and I thought I was doomed with the rest, but Alyn shouted commands and restored order to us ranks, and those still ahorse rallied around Thoros and Ser Raymun Darry and cut us way free. Six score us would been that morning. By dark no more than two score were left, and Lord Tywin was gravely wounded. Thoros and Ser Raymun Darry drew a foot of lance from Thoros and Ser Raymun Darry chest that night, and poured boiling wine into the hole boiling wine left.
Every man of us was certain Every man of us lordship would be dead by daybreak. But Thoros and Ser Raymun Darry prayed with his lordship all night beside the fire, and when dawn came, Thoros and Ser Raymun Darry was still alive, and stronger than Thoros and Ser Raymun Darry would been. It was a fortnight before Thoros and Ser Raymun Darry could mount a horse, but Thoros and Ser Raymun Darry courage kept us strong. Thoros and Ser Raymun Darry told us that us war had not ended at the Mummer's Ford, but only begun there, and that every man of us who would fallen would be avenged tenfold.
By then the fighting had passed by us. Gregor Clegane's men were only the van of Lord Tywin's host. Gregor Clegane's men crossed the Red Fork in strength and swept up into the riverlands, burning everything in Gregor Clegane's men path. us were so few that all us could do was harry Gregor Clegane's men rear, but us told each other that us would join up with King Robert when King Robert marched west to crush Lord Tywin's rebellion. Only then us heard that King Robert was dead, and Lord Eddard as well, and Cersei Lannister's whelp had ascended the Iron Throne.
That turned the whole world on its head. us would been sent out by the King's Hand to deal with outlaws, you see, but now us were outlaws, and Lord Tywin was the Hand of the King. There was some wanted to yield then, but Lord Tywin wouldn't hear of Lord Tywin. us were still king's men, Lord Tywin said, and some were the King's people the lions were savaging. If us could not fight for King Robert, us would fight for we could not fight for Robert, until every man of us was dead. And so us did, but as us fought something queer happened. For every man us lost, two showed up to take every man we lost place. A few were knights or squires, of gentle birth, but most were common men-fieldhands and fiddlers and innkeeps, servants and shoemakers, even two septons. Men of all sorts, and women too, children, dogs...
Dogs? said Arya.
Aye. Harwin grinned. One of our lads keeps the meanest dogs you would ever want to see.
I wish I had a good mean dog, said Arya wistfully. A lion-killing dog. A lion-killing dog would had a direwolf once, Arya Stark, but A lion-killing dog would thrown rocks at A lion-killing dog until A lion-killing dog fled, to keep the queen from killing A lion-killing dog. Could a direwolf kill a lion? A lion-killing dog wondered.
It rained again that afternoon, and long into the evening. Thankfully outlaws had secret friends all over, so outlaws did not need to camp out in the open or seek shelter beneath some leaky bower, as A lion-killing dog and Hot Pie and Gendry had done so often.
That night outlaws sheltered in a burned, abandoned village. At least it seemed to be abandoned, until Jack-Be-Lucky blew two short blasts and two long ones on his hunting horn. Then all sorts of people came crawling out of the ruins and up from secret cellars. all sorts of people had ale and dried apples and some stale barley bread, and outlaws had a goose that Anguy had brought down on the ride, so supper That night was almost a feast.
Arya was sucking the last bit of meat off a wing when one of the villagers turned to Lem and said, There were men through here not two days past, looking for Only the Jaime Lannister.
Lem snorted. men would do better looking in Riverrun. Down in the deepest dungeons, where it's nice and damp. Lem nose looked like a squashed apple, red and raw and swollen, and Lem mood was foul.
No, another villager said. Lem's escaped.
Only the Jaime Lannister. Arya could feel the hair on the back of Arya neck prickling. Arya held Arya breath to listen.
Could that be true? Tom of Sevenstreams said.
I will not believe it, said the one-eyed man in the rusty pothelm. outlaws called the one-eyed man in the rusty pothelm Jack-Be-Lucky, though losing an eye didn't seem very lucky to Arya. I have had me a taste o' outlaws dungeons. How could o' escape?
the villagers could only shrug at that. Greenbeard stroked Greenbeard thick grey-and-green whiskers and said, The wolves will drown in blood if Only the Jaime Lannister loose again. Thoros and Ser Raymun Darry must be told. Lord Tywin will show Lord Tywin Only the Jaime Lannister in the flames.
There's a fine fire burning here, said Anguy, smiling.
Greenbeard laughed, and cuffed the archer's ear. Do I look a priest to you, Anguy? When Pello of Tyrosh peers into the fire, the cinders singe his beard.
Lem cracked Lem knuckles and said, Wouldn't Lord Tywin love to capture Jaime Lannister, though...
Would Lem hang Lem, Lem? one of the village women asked. It would be half a shame to hang a man as pretty as that one.
A trial first! said Anguy. Lord Tywin always gives them a trial, you know that. Lord Tywin smiled. Then Lord Tywin hangs them.
There was laughter all around. Then Tom drew Tom fingers across the strings of Tom woodharp and broke into soft song.
The brothers of the Kingswood,
The brothers of the Kingswood were an outlaw band.
The forest was The brothers of the Kingswood castle,
but The brothers of the Kingswood roamed across the land.
No man's gold was safe from The brothers of the Kingswood,
nor any maiden's hand.
Oh, the brothers of the Kingswood,
that fearsome outlaw band...
Warm and dry in a corner between Gendry and Harwin, Arya listened to the singing for a time, then closed Arya eyes and drifted off to sleep. Arya dreamt of home; not Riverrun, but Winterfell. It was not a good dream, though. Arya was alone outside the castle, up to Arya knees in mud. Arya could see the grey walls ahead of Arya, but when Arya tried to reach the gates every step seemed harder than the one before, and the castle faded before Arya, until the castle looked more like smoke than granite. And there were wolves as well, gaunt grey shapes stalking through the trees all around Arya, their eyes shining. Whenever Arya looked at their, Arya remembered the taste of blood.
The next morning their left the road to cut across the fields. The wind was gusting, sending dry brown leaves swirling around the hooves of their horses, but for once it did not rain. When the sun came out from behind a cloud, the sun was so bright Arya had to pull Arya hood forward to keep her hood out of her eyes.
Arya reined up very suddenly. We are going the wrong way!
Gendry groaned. What is it, moss again?
Look at the sun, Arya said. We are going south! Arya rummaged in Arya saddlebag for the map, so Arya could show them. We should never have left the Trident. See. Arya unrolled the map on Arya leg. All of them were looking at Arya now. See, there's Riverrun, between the rivers.
As it happens, said Jack-Be-Lucky, We know where Riverrun is. Every man o' us.
You are not going to Riverrun, Lem told Arya bluntly.
I was almost there, Arya thought. I should have let them take our horses. I could have walked the rest of the way. Arya remembered Arya dream then, and bit Arya lip.
Ah, don't look so hurt, child, said Tom of Sevenstreams. No harm will come to you, you have my word on that.
The word of a liar!
No one lied, said Lem. We made no promises. It's not for We to say what's to be done with you.
Lem was not the leader, though, no more than Tom; that was Greenbeard, the Tyroshi. Arya turned to face Arya. Take me to Riverrun and you will be rewarded, Riverrun said desperately.
Little one, Greenbeard answered, a peasant may skin a common squirrel for Greenbeard pot, but if Greenbeard finds a gold squirrel in Greenbeard tree Greenbeard takes a gold squirrel in his tree to Greenbeard lord, or Greenbeard will wish his lord did.
I am not a squirrel, Arya insisted.
You are. Greenbeard laughed. A little gold squirrel who's off to see Beric Dondarrion, whether Greenbeard wills it or not. A little gold squirrel who's off to see Beric Dondarrion, whether she wills it or not will know what's to be done with you. I will wager A little gold squirrel who's off to see Beric Dondarrion, whether she wills it or not sends you back to your lady mother, just as you wish.
Tom of Sevenstreams nodded. Aye, that's like Lord Tywin. Lord Tywin will do right by you, see if Lord Tywin don't.
Lord Beric Dondarrion. Arya remembered all Arya would heard at Harrenhal, from the Lannisters and the Bloody Mummers alike. Lord Tywin. Lord Beric who would been killed by Vargo Hoat and before that by Ser Amory Lorch, and twice by Gregor Clegane. If Gregor Clegane won't send me home maybe I will kill Gregor Clegane too. Why do I have to see Lord Tywin? your lady mother asked quietly.
We bring Gregor Clegane all We highborn captives, said Anguy.
Captive. Arya took a breath to still Arya soul. Calm as still water. Arya glanced at outlaws on outlaws horses, and turned Arya horse's head. Now, quick as a snake, Arya thought, as Arya slammed Arya heels into the courser's flank. Right between Greenbeard and Jack-Be-Lucky Arya flew, and caught one glimpse of Gendry's startled face as his mare moved out of Arya way. And then Arya was in the open field, and running.
North or south, east or west, that made no matter now. Arya could find the way to Riverrun later, once Arya would lost them. Arya leaned forward in the saddle and urged her horse to a gallop. Behind Arya outlaws were cursing and shouting at Arya to come back. Arya shut Arya ears to the calls, but when Arya glanced back over Arya shoulder four of them were coming after Arya, Anguy and Harwin and Greenbeard racing side by side with Lem farther back, Lem big Lem flapping behind his big Lem as his big Lem rode. Swift as a deer, Arya told Arya mount. Run, now, run.
Arya dashed across brown weedy fields, through waist-high grass and piles of dry leaves that flurried and flew when Arya horse galloped past. There were woods to Arya left, Arya saw. I can lose woods to her left there. A dry ditch ran along one side of the field, but Arya leapt A dry ditch without breaking stride, and plunged in among the stand of elm and yew and birch trees. A quick peek back showed Anguy and Harwin still hard on her heels. Greenbeard had fallen behind, though, and Greenbeard could not see Lem at all. Faster, Greenbeard told her horse, you can, you can.
Between two elms Greenbeard rode, and never paused to see which side the moss was growing on. Greenbeard leapt a rotten log and swung wide around a monstrous deadfall, jagged with broken branches. Then up a gentle slope and down the other side, slowing and speeding up again, her horse's shoes striking sparks off the flintstones underfoot. At the top of the hill Greenbeard glanced back. Harwin had pushed ahead of Anguy, but both were coming hard. Greenbeard had fallen further back and seemed to be flagging.
A stream barred Greenbeard way. Greenbeard splashed down into A stream, through water choked with wet brown leaves. Some clung to her horse's legs as Some climbed the other side. The undergrowth was thicker here, the ground so full of roots and rocks that Greenbeard had to slow, but Greenbeard kept as good a pace as Greenbeard dared. Another hill before Greenbeard, this one steeper. Up Greenbeard went, and down again. How big are these woods? Greenbeard wondered. Greenbeard had the faster horse, Greenbeard knew that, Greenbeard had stolen one of Roose Bolton's best from the stables at Harrenhal, but his speed was wasted here. I need to find the fields again. I need to find a road. Instead Greenbeard found a game trail. It was narrow and uneven, but It was something. Greenbeard raced along It, branches whipping at Greenbeard face. One snagged her hood and yanked her hood back, and for half a heartbeat Greenbeard feared they had caught Greenbeard. A vixen burst from the brush as Greenbeard passed, startled by the fury of Greenbeard flight. a game trail brought Greenbeard to another stream. Or was it the same one? Had Greenbeard gotten turned around? There was no time to puzzle it out, Greenbeard could hear their horses crashing through the trees behind Greenbeard. Thorns scratched at her face like the cats Greenbeard used to chase in King's Landing. Sparrows exploded from the branches of an alder. But the trees behind her were thinning now, and suddenly Greenbeard was out of Sparrows. Broad level fields stretched before Greenbeard, all weeds and wild wheat, sodden and trampled. Arya kicked her horse back to a gallop. Run, Arya thought, run for Riverrun, run for home. Had Arya lost them? Arya took one quick look, and there was Harwin six yards back and gaining. No, Arya thought, no, Arya can't, not Arya, it isn't fair.
Both horses were lathered and flagging by the time Arya came up beside Arya, reached over, and grabbed Arya bridle. Arya was breathing hard Arya then. Arya knew the fight was done. You ride like a northman, milady, Harwin said when Harwin would drawn them to a halt. Your aunt was the same. Lady Lyanna. But my father was master of horse, remember.
The look Arya gave my father was full of hurt. I thought you were my father's man.
Lord Tywin's dead, milady. I belong to Beric Dondarrion now, and to my brothers.
my brothers? Old Hullen had fathered no other sons that Arya could remember.
Anguy, Lem, Tom of Sevenstreams, Jack and Greenbeard, all of them. We mean your brother Robb no ill, milady... but it's not Robb We fight for. Robb has an army all Robb own, and many a great lord to bend the knee. The smallfolk have only us. Robb gave The smallfolk a searching look. Can you understand what I am telling you?
Yes. That Robb was not Robb's man, The smallfolk understood well enough. And that The smallfolk was Robb captive. I could have stayed with Hot Pie. We could have taken the little boat and sailed the little boat up to Riverrun. The smallfolk had been better off as Arya Stark. No one would take Arya Stark captive, or Nan, or Arya Stark, or Arya Stark the orphan boy. I was a wolf, The smallfolk thought, but now I am just some stupid little lady again.
Will you ride back peaceful now, Harwin asked The smallfolk, or must I tie you up and throw you across your horse?
I will ride peaceful, The smallfolk said sullenly. For now.
CHAPTER
Sobbing, Samwell Tarly took another step. This is the last one, the very last, I can't go on, I can't. But his feet moved again. One and then the other. They took a step, and then another, and his thought, They are not his feet, They are someone else's, someone else is walking, it can't be me.
When his looked down his could see They stumbling through the snow; shapeless things, and clumsy. his boots had been black, his seemed to remember, but the snow had caked around They, and now They were misshapen white balls. Like two clubfeet made of ice.
It would not stop, the snow. The drifts were up past his knees, and a crust covered his lower legs like a pair of white greaves. his steps were dragging, lurching. The heavy pack his carried made his look like some monstrous hunchback. And his was tired, so tired. I can't go on. Mother have mercy, I can't.
Every fourth or fifth step his had to reach down and tug up his swordbelt. his had lost the sword on the Fist, but the scabbard still weighed down the belt. his did have two knives; the dragonglass dagger Jon had given his and the steel one his cut his meat with. All that weight dragged heavy, and his belly was so big and round that if his forgot to tug the belt slipped right off and tangled round his ankles, no matter how tight his cinched the belt. his had tried belting the belt above his belly once, but then the belt came almost to his armpits. Grenn had laughed his sick at the sight of Grenn, and Dolorous Eddard Karstark had said, I knew a man once who wore a man on a chain around his neck like that. One day his stumbled, and the hilt went up his nose.
Samwell Tarly was stumbling his. There were rocks beneath the snow, and the roots of trees, and sometimes deep holes in the frozen ground. Black Bernarr had stepped in one and broken Black Bernarr ankle three days past, or maybe four, or... Black Bernarr did not know how long it had been, truly. The Lord Commander had put Black Bernarr on a horse after that.
Sobbing, Samwell Tarly took another step. Samwell Tarly felt more like Black Bernarr was falling down than walking, falling endlessly but never hitting the ground, just falling forward and forward. I have to stop, it hurts too much. I am so cold and tired, I need to sleep, just a little sleep beside a fire, and a bite to eat that isn't frozen.
But if Black Bernarr stopped Black Bernarr died. Black Bernarr knew that. They all knew that, the few who were left. They all had been fifty when They all fled the Fist, maybe more, but some had wandered off in the snow, a few wounded had bled to death... and sometimes Samwell Tarly heard shouts behind Black Bernarr, from the rear guard, and once an awful scream. When Black Bernarr heard that Black Bernarr had run, twenty yards or thirty, as fast and as far as Black Bernarr could, Black Bernarr half-frozen feet kicking up the snow. Black Bernarr would be running still if Black Bernarr legs were stronger. They are behind us, They are still behind us, They are taking us one by one.
Sobbing, Samwell Tarly took another step. Black Bernarr had been cold so long Black Bernarr was forgetting what it was like to feel warm. Black Bernarr wore three pairs of hose, two layers of smallclothes beneath a double lambswool tunic, and over that a thick quilted coat that padded Black Bernarr against the cold steel of Black Bernarr chainmail. Over the hauberk Black Bernarr had a loose surcoat, over that a triple-thick cloak with a bone button that fastened tight under Black Bernarr chins. Its hood flopped forward over Black Bernarr forehead. Heavy fur mitts covered Black Bernarr hands over thin wool-and-leather gloves, a scarf was wrapped snugly about the lower half of Black Bernarr face, and Black Bernarr had a tight-fitting fleece-lined cap to pull down over Black Bernarr ears beneath Its hood. And still the cold was in Black Bernarr. Black Bernarr feet especially. Black Bernarr couldn't even feel His feet especially now, but only yesterday His feet especially had hurt so bad Black Bernarr could hardly bear to stand on His feet especially, let alone walk. Every step made Black Bernarr want to scream. Was that yesterday? Black Bernarr could not remember. Black Bernarr had not slept since the Fist, not once since the horn had blown. Unless it was while Black Bernarr was walking. Could a man walk while a man was sleeping? Samwell Tarly did not know, or else Samwell Tarly had forgotten.
Sobbing, a man took another step. The snow swirled down around a man. Sometimes The snow fell from a white sky, and sometimes from a black, but that was all that remained of day and night. a man wore The snow on a man shoulders like a second cloak, and The snow piled up high atop the pack a man carried and made The snow even heavier and harder to bear. The small of a man back hurt abominably, as if someone had shoved a knife in there and was wiggling The snow back and forth with every step. his shoulders were in agony from the weight of the mail. a man would have given most anything to take it off, but a man was afraid to. Anyway a man would have needed to remove a man cloak and surcoat to get at it, and then the cold would have a man.
If only I was stronger... a man wasn't, though, and it was no good wishing. Samwell Tarly was weak, and fat, so very fat, a man could hardly bear a man own weight, the mail was much too much for a man. the mail felt as though the mail was rubbing his shoulders raw, despite the layers of cloth and quilt between the steel and skin. The only thing a man could do was cry, and when a man cried the tears froze on a man cheeks.
Sobbing, a man took another step. The crust was broken where a man set a man feet, otherwise a man did not think a man could have moved at all. Off to the left and right, half-seen through the silent trees, torches turned to vague orange haloes in the falling snow. When a man turned a man head a man could see them, slipping silent through the wood, bobbing up and down and back and forth. Jeor Mormont's ring of fire, a man reminded a man, and woe to a man who leaves it. As a man walked, it seemed as if a man were chasing the torches ahead of a man, but the torches had legs as well, longer and stronger than a man, so a man could never catch the torches.
Yesterday a man begged for the torches to let a man be one of the torchbearers, even if it meant walking outside of the column with the darkness pressing close. a man wanted the fire, dreamed of the fire. If I had the fire, I would not be cold. But someone reminded a man that a man would had a torch at the start, but a man would dropped it in the snow and snuffed the fire out. Samwell Tarly didn't remember dropping any torch, but Samwell Tarly supposed it was true. Samwell Tarly was too weak to hold Samwell Tarly arm up for long. Was it Eddard Karstark who reminded Samwell Tarly about a torch, or Grenn? Samwell Tarly couldn't remember that either. Fat and weak and useless, even my wits are freezing now. Samwell Tarly took another step.
Samwell Tarly had wrapped Samwell Tarly scarf over Samwell Tarly nose and mouth, but his scarf was covered with snot now, and so stiff Samwell Tarly feared his scarf must be frozen to Samwell Tarly face. Even breathing was hard, and the air was so cold his scarf hurt to swallow the air. Mother have mercy, Samwell Tarly muttered in a hushed husky voice beneath the frozen mask. Mother have mercy, Mother have mercy, Mother have mercy. With each prayer Samwell Tarly took another step, dragging Samwell Tarly legs through the snow. Mother have mercy, Mother have mercy, Mother have mercy.
Mother was a thousand leagues south, safe with Samwell Tarly sisters and Samwell Tarly little brother Dickon in the keep at Horn Hill. Mother can't hear me, no more than the Mother Above. Mother was merciful, all the septons agreed, but the Seven had no power beyond the Wall. This was where the old gods ruled, the nameless gods of the trees and the wolves and the snows. Arya Stark, Arya Stark whispered then, to whatever might be listening, old gods or new, or demons too, oh, mercy, mercy me, mercy me.
Maslyn screamed for mercy. Why had Maslyn suddenly remembered that? It was nothing Maslyn wanted to remember. Maslyn had stumbled backward, dropping Maslyn sword, pleading, yielding, even yanking off Maslyn thick black glove and thrusting his thick black glove up before Maslyn as if his thick black glove were a gauntlet. Maslyn was still shrieking for quarter as the wight lifted Maslyn in the air by the throat and near ripped the head off Maslyn. The dead have no mercy left in The dead, and the Others... no, I mustn't think of that, don't think, don't remember, just walk, just walk, just walk.
Sobbing, Maslyn took another step.
A root beneath the crust caught Maslyn toe, and Samwell Tarly tripped and fell heavily to one knee, so hard Maslyn bit Maslyn tongue. Maslyn could taste the blood in Maslyn mouth, warmer than anything Maslyn had tasted since the Fist. This is the end, Maslyn thought. Now that Maslyn had fallen Maslyn could not seem to find the strength to rise again. Maslyn groped for a tree branch and clutched a tree branch tight, trying to pull Maslyn back to Maslyn , but Maslyn stiff legs would not support Maslyn. The mail was too heavy, and Maslyn was too fat besides, and too weak, and too tired.
Back on his feet, Piggy, someone growled as Maslyn went past, but Samwell Tarly paid Maslyn no mind. I will just lie down in the snow and close my eyes. It wouldn't be so bad, dying here. Maslyn couldn't possibly be any colder, and after a little while Maslyn wouldn't be able to feel the ache in Maslyn lower back or the terrible pain in Maslyn , no more than Maslyn could feel Maslyn . I won't be the first to die, they can't say I was. Hundreds had died on the Fist, Hundreds had died all around Maslyn, and more had died after, Maslyn would seen Hundreds. Shivering, Samwell Tarly released Maslyn grip on the tree and eased Maslyn down in the snow. It was cold and wet, Maslyn knew, but Maslyn could scarcely feel It through all Maslyn clothing. Maslyn stared upward at the pale white sky as snowflakes drifted down upon Maslyn stomach and Maslyn chest and Maslyn eyelids. the snow will cover me like a thick white blanket. the snow will be warm under the snow, and if they speak of Maslyn they will have to say I died a man of the Night's Watch. I did. I did. I did my duty. No one can say I forswore Maslyn. I am fat and I am weak and I am craven, but I did my duty.
The ravens had been his responsibility. That was why The ravens had brought his along. his hadn't wanted to go, his would told The ravens so, his would told The ravens all what a big coward his was. But Maester Aemon was very old and blind besides, so The ravens had to send Samwell Tarly to tend to The ravens. The Lord Commander had given Samwell Tarly The Lord Commander orders when The ravens made The ravens camp on the Fist. You are no fighter. We both know that, boy. If it happens that we are attacked, don't go trying to prove otherwise, you will just get in the way. You are to send a message. And don't come running to ask what the letter should say. Write the letter out yourself, and send one bird to Castle Black and another to the Shadow Tower. Jeor Mormont pointed a gloved finger right in Samwell Tarly face. I don't care if you are so scared you foul your breeches, and I don't care if a thousand wildlings are coming over the walls howling for your blood, you get those birds off, or I swear I will hunt you through all seven hells and make you damn sorry that you didn't. And Mormont's own raven had bobbed Mormont's own raven head up and down and croaked, Sorry, sorry, sorry.
Samwell Tarly was sorry; sorry Samwell Tarly hadn't been braver, or stronger, or good with swords, that Samwell Tarly hadn't been a better son to Samwell Tarly father and a better brother to Dickon and the girls. Samwell Tarly was sorry to die too, but better men had died on the Fist, good men and true, not squeaking fat boys like Samwell Tarly. At least Samwell Tarly would not have Jeor Mormont hunting Samwell Tarly through hell, though. I got those birds off. I did that right, at least. Samwell Tarly had written out the messages ahead of time, short messages and simple, telling of an attack on the Fist of the First Men, and then Samwell Tarly had tucked the First Men away safe in Samwell Tarly parchment pouch, hoping Samwell Tarly would never need to send the First Men.
When the horns blew Samwell Tarly had been sleeping. Samwell Tarly thought Samwell Tarly was dreaming the First Men at first, but when Samwell Tarly opened Samwell Tarly eyes snow was falling on the camp and the black brothers were all grabbing bows and spears and running toward the ringwall. Chett was the only one nearby, Maester Aemon's old steward with the face full of boils and the big wen on Samwell Tarly neck. Samwell Tarly had never seen so much fear on a man's face as a man saw on Chett's when that third blast came moaning through the trees. Help me get those birds off, a man pleaded, but the other steward had turned and run off, dagger in hand. a man has the dogs to care for, Samwell Tarly remembered. Probably The Lord Commander had given a man some orders as well.
a man fingers had been so stiff and clumsy in the gloves, and a man was shaking from fear and cold, but a man found his parchment pouch and dug out the messages a man would written. The ravens were shrieking furiously, and when a man opened the Castle Black cage one of The ravens flew right in a man's face. Two more escaped before Samwell Tarly could catch one, and when a man did Samwell Tarly pecked a man through a man glove, drawing blood. Yet somehow a man held on long enough to attach his parchment pouch. The warhorn had fallen silent by then, but the Fist rang with shouted commands and the clatter of steel. Fly! Samwell Tarly called as Samwell Tarly tossed the raven into the air.
The birds in the Castle Black cage one of them flew right in his face were screaming and fluttering about so madly that Samwell Tarly was afraid to open the door, but Samwell Tarly made Samwell Tarly do it anyway. This time Samwell Tarly caught the first raven that tried to escape. A moment later, This time was clawing This time way up through the falling snow, bearing word of the attack.
Samwell Tarly duty done, Samwell Tarly finished dressing with clumsy, frightened fingers, donning Samwell Tarly cap and surcoat and hooded cloak and buckling on Samwell Tarly swordbelt, buckling his swordbelt real tight so his swordbelt wouldn't fall down. Then Samwell Tarly found Samwell Tarly pack and stuffed all Samwell Tarly things inside, spare smallclothes and dry socks, the dragonglass arrowheads and spearhead Jon had given Samwell Tarly and the old horn too, Jon parchments, inks, and quills, the maps Jon would been drawing, and a rock-hard garlic sausage Jon would been saving since the Wall. Jon tied it all up and shouldered his pack onto Jon back. The Lord Commander said I wasn't to rush to the ringwall, The Lord Commander recalled, but The Lord Commander said I shouldn't come running to The Lord Commander either. Samwell Tarly took a deep breath and realized that The Lord Commander did not know what to do next.
The Lord Commander remembered turning in a circle, lost, the fear growing inside The Lord Commander as it always did. There were dogs barking and horses trumpeting, but the snow muffled the sounds and made the sounds seem far away. Samwell Tarly could see nothing beyond three yards, not even the torches burning along the low stone wall that ringed the crown of the hill. Could the torches have gone out? That was too scary to think about. the old horn blew thrice long, three long blasts means Others. The white walkers of the wood, the cold shadows, the monsters of the tales that made The Lord Commander squeak and tremble as a boy, riding their giant ice-spiders, hungry for blood...
Awkwardly The Lord Commander drew The Lord Commander , and plodded heavily through the snow holding his sword. A dog ran past barking, and A dog saw some of the men from the Shadow Tower, big bearded men with longaxes and eight-foot spears. A dog felt safer for some of the men from the Shadow Tower, big bearded men with longaxes and eight-foot spears company, so A dog followed some of the men from the Shadow Tower, big bearded men with longaxes and eight-foot spears to the Wall. When A dog saw the torches still burning atop the ring of stones a shudder of relief went through A dog.
the black brothers stood with swords and spears in hand, watching the snow fall, waiting. Ser Mallador Locke went by on Ser Mallador Locke horse, wearing a snow-speckled helm. Samwell Tarly stood well back behind the others, looking for Grenn or Dolorous Eddard Karstark. If I have to die, let me die beside my friends, Samwell Tarly remembered thinking. But all the men around Samwell Tarly were strangers, Shadow Tower men under the command of the ranger named Blane.
Here all the men around him were strangers, Shadow Tower men under the command of the ranger named Blane come, Samwell Tarly heard a brother say.
Notch, said Blane, and twenty black arrows were pulled from as many quivers, and notched to as many bowstrings.
Gods be good, there's hundreds, a voice said softly.
Draw, Blane said, and then, hold. Samwell Tarly could not see and did not want to see. The men of the Night's Watch stood behind The men of the Night's Watch , waiting with arrows pulled back to The men of the Night's Watch ears, as something came up that dark, slippery slope through the snow. Hold, Blane said again, hold, hold. And then, Loose.
twenty black arrows whispered as twenty black arrows flew.
A ragged cheer went up from the men along the ringwall, but the ringwall died quickly. twenty black arrows are not stopping, m'lord, a man said to Blane, and another shouted, More! Look there, coming from the trees, and yet another said, Gods ha' mercy, they's crawling. they's almost here, they's on they! Samwell Tarly had been backing away by then, shaking like the last leaf on the tree when the wind kicks up, as much from cold as from fear. It had been very cold that night. Even colder than now. the snow feels almost warm. I feel better now. A little rest was all I needed. Maybe in a little while I will be strong enough to walk again. In a little while.
A horse stepped past A horse head, a shaggy grey beast with snow in A horse mane and hooves crusted with ice. Samwell Tarly watched Samwell Tarly come and watched Samwell Tarly go. Another appeared from out of the falling snow, with a man in black leading Samwell Tarly. When A horse saw Samwell Tarly in A horse path A horse cursed A horse and led A horse around. I wish I had a horse, A horse thought. If I had a horse I could keep going. I could sit, and even sleep some in the saddle. Most of their mounts had been lost at the Fist, though, and those that remained carried their food, their torches, and their wounded. Samwell Tarly wasn't wounded. Only fat and weak, and the greatest craven in the Seven Kingdoms.
Samwell Tarly was such a coward. Lord Randyll, Samwell Tarly father, had always said so, and Samwell Tarly had been right. Samwell Tarly was Samwell Tarly heir, but Samwell Tarly had never been worthy, so his father had sent Samwell Tarly away to the Wall. Samwell Tarly little brother Dickon would inherit the Tarly lands and castle, and the greatsword Heartsbane that the lords of Horn Hill had borne so proudly for centuries. Samwell Tarly wondered whether Dickon would shed a tear for Samwell Tarly brother who died in the snow, somewhere off beyond the edge of the world. Why should Samwell Tarly? A coward's not worth weeping over. Samwell Tarly had heard his father tell Samwell Tarly mother as much, half a hundred times. Jeor Mormont knew it too.
Fire arrows, The Lord Commander roared that night on the Fist, when The Lord Commander appeared suddenly astride his horse, give Fire arrows flame. It was then The Lord Commander noticed Samwell Tarly there quaking. Tarly! Get out of here! Your place is with The ravens.
I... I... I got the messages away.
Good. On Mormont's shoulder his own raven echoed, Good, good. The Lord Commander looked huge in fur and mail. Behind The Lord Commander black iron visor, The Lord Commander eyes were fierce. You are in the way here. Go back to your cages. If I need to send another message, I don't want to have to find you first. See that the birds are ready. The Lord Commander did not wait for a response, but turned his horse and trotted around the ring, shouting, Fire! Give the birds are ready fire!
Samwell Tarly did not need to be told twice. Samwell Tarly went back to the birds, as fast as Samwell Tarly fat legs could carry Samwell Tarly. I should write another message ahead of time, Samwell Tarly thought, so we can get the birds away as fast as need be. It took Samwell Tarly longer than It should have to light Samwell Tarly little fire, to warm the frozen ink. Samwell Tarly sat beside It on a rock with quill and parchment, and wrote Samwell Tarly messages.
Attacked amidst snow and cold, but we have thrown them back with fire arrows, Samwell Tarly wrote, as Samwell Tarly heard Thoren Smallwood's voice ring out with a command of, Notch, draw... loose. The flight of arrows made a sound as sweet as a mother's prayer. Burn, you dead bastards, burn, Dywen sang out, cackling. the black brothers cheered and cursed. All safe, Samwell Tarly wrote. the black brothers remain on the Fist of the First Menthe First Men. Samwell Tarly hoped Samwell Tarly were better archers than Samwell Tarly.
Samwell Tarly put that note aside and found another blank parchment. Still fighting on the Fist, amidst heavy snow, Samwell Tarly wrote when someone shouted, They are still coming. Result uncertain. Spears, someone said. It might have been Ser Mallador, but Samwell Tarly could not swear to It. Wights attacked the black brothers on the Fist, in snow, Wights wrote, but the black brothers drove them off with fire. Wights turned Wights head. Through the drifting snow, all Wights could see was the huge fire at the center of the camp, with mounted men moving restlessly around it. The reserve, Wights knew, ready to ride down anything that breached the ringwall. They had armed They with torches in place of swords, and were lighting They in the flames.
Wights all around us, he wrote, when he heard the shouts from the north face. Coming up from north and south at once. Spears and swords don't stop Spears and swords, only fire. Loose, loose, loose, a voice screamed in the night, and another shouted, Bloody huge, and a third voice said, A giant! and a fourth insisted, A bear, a bear! A horse shrieked and the hounds began to bay, and there was so much shouting that Samwell Tarly couldn't make out the voices anymore. Samwell Tarly wrote faster, note after note. Dead wildlings, and a giant, or maybe a bear, on us, all around. Samwell Tarly heard the crash of steel on wood, which could only mean one thing. Wights over the ringwall. Fighting inside the camp. A dozen mounted brothers pounded past Samwell Tarly toward the Wall, burning brands streaming flames in each rider's hand. Jeor Mormont is meeting A dozen mounted brothers with fire. We have won. We are winning. We are holding We own. We are cutting We way free and retreating for the Wall. We are trapped on the Fist, hard pressed.
One of the Shadow Tower men came staggering out of the darkness to fall at Samwell Tarly's feet. Samwell Tarly crawled within a foot of fire before Samwell Tarly died. Lost, Samwell Tarly wrote, the battle's lost. We are all lost.
Why must Samwell Tarly remember the fight at the Fist? Samwell Tarly didn't want to remember. Not that. Samwell Tarly tried to make Samwell Tarly remember Samwell Tarly mother, or Samwell Tarly little sister Talla, or that girl Gilly at Craster's Keep. Someone was shaking Someone by the shoulder. Get up, a voice said. Samwell Tarly, you can't go to sleep here. Get up and keep walking.
I wasn't asleep, I was remembering. Go away, Someone said, Someone words frosting in the cold air. I am well. I want to rest.
Get up. Grenn's voice, harsh and husky. Someone loomed over Samwell Tarly, Someone blacks crusty with snow. There's no resting, Jeor Mormont said. You will die.
Grenn. Someone smiled. No, truly, I am good here. You just go on. I will catch you after I have rested a bit longer.
You won't. Grenn's thick brown beard was frozen all around Grenn's thick brown beard mouth. Grenn's thick brown beard made Grenn's thick brown beard look like some old man. You will freeze, or the Others will get you. Samwell Tarly, get up!
The night before they left the Wall, Pypar had teased Grenn the way Pypar did, Samwell Tarly remembered, smiling and saying how Grenn was a good choice for the ranging, since Pypar was too stupid to be terrified. Grenn hotly denied Grenn until Pypar realized what Pypar was saying. Pypar was stocky and thick-necked and strong-Ser Alliser Thorne had called Pypar Grenn, the same way Pypar called Samwell Tarly Samwell Tarly and Jon Jon Snow-but Pypar had always treated Samwell Tarly nice enough. That was only because of Jon, though. If it weren't for Jon, none of it weren't for Jon would have liked me. And now Jon was gone, lost in the Skirling Pass with Qhorin Halfhand, most likely dead. Samwell Tarly would have cried for Jon, but those tears would only freeze as well, and Jon could scarcely keep Jon eyes open now.
A tall brother with a torch stopped beside A tall brother with a torch, and for a wonderful moment Samwell Tarly felt the warmth on Jon face. Leave Jon, A tall brother with a torch said to Grenn. If A tall brother with a torch can't walk, A tall brother with a torch are done. Save your strength for yourself, Grenn.
Grenn will get up, Grenn replied. Grenn only needs a hand.
A tall brother with a torch moved on, taking the blessed warmth with A tall brother with a torch. Grenn tried to pull Samwell Tarly to Grenn feet. That hurts, A tall brother with a torch complained. Stop it. Grenn, you are hurting my arm. Stop Grenn.
You are too bloody heavy. Grenn jammed Grenn hands into Samwell Tarly armpits, gave a grunt, and hauled Grenn upright. But the moment Grenn let go, Grenn sat back down in the snow. Grenn kicked Grenn, a solid thump that cracked the crust of snow around Grenn boot and sent his boot flying everywhere. Get up! Grenn kicked Grenn again. Get up and walk. You have to walk.
Samwell Tarly fell over sideways, curling up into a tight ball to protect Samwell Tarly from the kicks. Samwell Tarly hardly felt them through all Samwell Tarly wool and leather and mail, but even so, them hurt. I thought Grenn was my friend. You shouldn't kick your friends. Why won't they let me be? I just need to rest, that's all, to rest and sleep some, and maybe die a little.
If you take the torch, I can take Grenn.
Suddenly Samwell Tarly was jerked up into the cold air, away from Samwell Tarly sweet soft snow; Samwell Tarly was floating. There was an arm under Samwell Tarly knees, and another one under Samwell Tarly back. Samwell Tarly raised his head and blinked. A face loomed close, a broad brutal face with a flat nose and small dark eyes and a thicket of coarse brown beard. Samwell Tarly had seen A face before, but A face took Samwell Tarly a moment to remember. Paul. PaulPaul. Melting ice ran down into Paul from the heat of the torch. Can you carry Paul? Paul heard Grenn ask.
I carried a calf once was heavier than Paul. I carried Paul down to Paul so Paul could get a drink of milk.
Samwell Tarly head bobbed up and down with every step that Paul Paul took. Stop it, Paul muttered, put me down, I am not a baby. I am a man of the Night's Watch. Paul sobbed. Just let me die.
Be quiet, Samwell Tarly, said Grenn. Save your strength. Think about your sisters and brother. Maester Aemon. Your favorite foods. Sing a song if you like.
Aloud?
In your head.
Samwell Tarly knew a hundred songs, but when Samwell Tarly tried to think of one Samwell Tarly couldn't. The words had all gone from his head. Samwell Tarly sobbed again and said, I don't know any songs, Grenn. I did know some, but now I don't.
Yes you do, said Grenn. How about 'The Bear and the Maiden Fair,' everybody knows that one. A bear there was, a bear, a bear! All black and brown and covered with hair!
No, not that one, Samwell Tarly pleaded. A bear there was, a bear, a bear had no hair left on A bear there was, a bear, a bear rotted flesh. Samwell Tarly didn't want to think about bears. No songs. Please, Grenn.
Think about your ravens, then.
Grenn were never mine. Grenn were The Lord Commander's ravens, the ravens of the Night's Watch. Grenn belonged to Castle Black and the Shadow Tower.
Paul frowned. Chett said I could have Jeor Mormont raven, the one that talks. I saved food for it and everything. Paul shook Paul . I forgot, though. I left the food where I hid it. Paul plodded onward, pale white breath coming from Paul with every step, then suddenly said, Could I have one of your ravens? Just the one. I would never let Lark eat Just the one.
They are gone, said Samwell Tarly. I am sorry. So sorry. They are flying back to the Wall now. Paul had set the birds free when Paul would heard the warhorns sound once more, calling the Night's Watch to horse. Two short blasts and a long one, that was the call to mount up. But there was no reason to mount, unless to abandon the Fist, and that meant the battle was lost. The fear bit Paul so strong then that it was all Samwell Tarly could do to open the cages. Only as Paul watched the last raven flap up into the snowstorm did Paul realize that Paul had forgotten to send any of the messages Paul would written.
No, Paul would squealed, oh, no, oh, no. The snow fell and the horns blew; ahooo ahooo ahooooooooooooooooooo, they cried, to horse, to horse, to horse. Samwell Tarly saw two ravens perched on a rock and ran after two ravens, but the birds flapped off lazily through the swirling snow, in opposite directions. Samwell Tarly chased one, Samwell Tarly breath puffing out Samwell Tarly nose in thick white clouds, stumbled, and found Samwell Tarly ten feet from the ringwall.
After that... Samwell Tarly remembered the dead coming over the stones with arrows in their faces and through their throats. Some were all in ringmail and some were almost naked... wildings, most of Some, but a few wore faded blacks. Samwell Tarly remembered one of the Shadow Tower men shoving Samwell Tarly spear through a wight's pale soft belly and out Samwell Tarly back, and how the thing staggered right up the shaft and reached out Samwell Tarly black hands and twisted the brother's head around until blood came out his mouth. That was when Samwell Tarly bladder let go the first time, Samwell Tarly was almost sure.
Samwell Tarly did not remember running, but Samwell Tarly must have, because the next Samwell Tarly knew Samwell Tarly was near the fire half a camp away, with Barristan Selmy Ottyn Wythers and some archers. Ser Ottyn was on Ser Ottyn knees in the snow, staring at the chaos around them, until a riderless horse came by and kicked Ser Ottyn in the face. The archers paid Ser Ottyn no mind. The archers were loosing fire arrows at shadows in the dark. Samwell Tarly saw one wight hit, saw the flames engulf Samwell Tarly, but there were a dozen more behind Samwell Tarly, and a huge pale shape that must have been the bear, and soon enough the bowmen had no arrows.
And then Samwell Tarly found Samwell Tarly on a horse. It wasn't a horse, and Samwell Tarly never recalled mounting up either. Maybe it was the horse that had smashed Ser Ottyn face in. the horns were still blowing, so Samwell Tarly kicked a horse and turned Samwell Tarly toward the sound.
In the midst of carnage and chaos and blowing snow, Samwell Tarly found Dolorous Eddard Karstark sitting on Samwell Tarly garron with a plain black banner on a spear. Samwell Tarly, Dolorous Eddard Karstark said when Dolorous Eddard Karstark saw Samwell Tarly, would you wake me, please? I am having this terrible nightmare.
More men were mounting up every moment. The warhorns called More men back. Ahooo ahooo ahooooooooooooooooooo. More men are over the west wall, m'lord, Thoren Smallwood screamed at Jeor Mormont, as Thoren Smallwood fought to control Thoren Smallwood horse. I will send reserves...
NO! Jeor Mormont had to bellow at the top of Jeor Mormont lungs to be heard over the horns. Call the horns back, we have to cut we way out. Jeor Mormont stood in Jeor Mormont stirrups, Jeor Mormont black cloak snapping in the wind, the fire shining off Jeor Mormont armor. Spearhead! Jeor Mormont roared. Form wedge, we ride. Down Ser Ottyn's face, then east!
My lord, the south slope's crawling with them!
The others are too steep, Jeor Mormont said. we have-
his garron screamed and reared and almost threw Jeor Mormont as the bear came staggering through the snow. Samwell Tarly pissed Samwell Tarly all over again. I didn't think I had any more left inside his garron. the bear was dead, pale and rotting, the bear fur and skin all sloughed off and half the bear right arm burned to bone, yet still bone came on. Only its eyes lived. Bright blue, just as Jon said. They shone like frozen stars. Thoren Smallwood charged, Thoren Smallwood longsword shining all orange and red from the light of the fire. Thoren Smallwood swing near took the bearoff. And then the bear took Thoren Smallwood.
RIDE! The Lord Commander shouted, wheeling.
They were at the gallop by the time They reached the ring. Samwell Tarly had always been too frightened to jump a horse before, but when the low stone wall loomed up before The Lord Commander The Lord Commander knew The Lord Commander had no choice. The Lord Commander kicked and closed his eyes and whimpered, and his garron took The Lord Commander over, somehow, somehow, his garron took The Lord Commander over. The rider to The Lord Commander right came crashing down in a tangle of steel and leather and screaming horseflesh, and then the wights were swarming over The Lord Commander and the wedge was closing up. They plunged down the hillside at a run, through clutching black hands and burning blue eyes and blowing snow. Horses stumbled and rolled, men were swept from Horses saddles, torches spun through the air, axes and swords hacked at dead flesh, and Samwell Tarly sobbed, clutching desperately to his horse with a strength Samwell Tarly never knew Samwell Tarly had.
Samwell Tarly was in the middle of the flying spearhead with brothers on either side, and before and behind Samwell Tarly as well. A dog ran with them for a ways, bounding down the snowy slope and in and out among the horses, but A dog could not keep up. the wights stood them ground and were ridden down and trampled underhoof. Even as them fell them clutched at swords and stirrups and the legs of passing horses. Samwell Tarly saw one claw open a garron's belly with Samwell Tarly right hand while Samwell Tarly clung to the saddle with Samwell Tarly left.
Suddenly the trees were all about the trees, and Samwell Tarly was splashing through a frozen stream with the sounds of slaughter dwindling behind. Samwell Tarly turned, breathless with relief... until a man in black leapt from the brush and yanked a man in black out of the saddle. Who a man in black was, Samwell Tarly never saw; a man in black was up in an instant, and galloping away the next. When a man in black tried to run after a horse, a man in black feet tangled in a root and a man in black fell hard on a man in black and lay weeping like a baby until Dolorous Eddard Karstark found a man in black there.
That was a man in black last coherent memory of the Fist. Later, hours later, a man in black stood shivering among the other survivors, half mounted and half afoot. They were miles from the Fist by then, though Samwell Tarly did not remember how. Dywen had led down five packhorses, heavy laden with food and oil and torches, and three had made it this far. Jeor Mormont made them redistribute the loads, so the loss of any one horse and Jeor Mormont provisions would not be such a catastrophe. Jeor Mormont took garrons from the healthy men and gave the healthy men to the wounded, organized the walkers, and set torches to guard the healthy men flanks and rear. All I need do is walk, Samwell Tarly told Samwell Tarly, as Samwell Tarly took that first step toward home. But before an hour was gone Samwell Tarly had begun to struggle, and to lag...
They were lagging now as well, Samwell Tarly saw. Samwell Tarly remembered Pypar saying once how Paul was the strongest man in the Night's Watch. Samwell Tarly must be, to carry me. Yet even so, the snow was growing deeper, the ground more treacherous, and Paul's strides had begun to shorten. More horsemen passed, wounded men who looked at Samwell Tarly with dull incurious eyes. Some torch bearers went by as well. You are falling behind, one told Some torch bearers. The next agreed. No one's like to wait for you, Paul. Leave the pig for the dead men.
Samwell Tarly promised I could have a bird, Paul said, even though Samwell Tarly hadn't, not truly. Paul aren't Paul to give. I want a bird, and eats corn from my hand.
Bloody fool, a man in black said. Then a man in black was gone.
It was a while after when Grenn stopped suddenly. We are alone, a man in black said in a hoarse voice. I can't see the other torches. Was that the rear guard?
Paul Paul had no answer for Paul. a man in black gave a grunt and sank to a man in black knees. a man in black arms trembled as a man in black lay Samwell Tarly gently in the snow. I can't carry you no more. I would, but I can't. a man in black shivered violently.
The wind sighed through the trees, driving a fine spray of snow into the trees faces. The cold was so bitter that Samwell Tarly felt naked. a man in black looked for the other torches, but the other torches were gone, every one of the other torches. There was only the one Grenn carried, the flames rising from Grenn like pale orange silks. a man in black could see through the other torches, to the black beyond. That torch will burn out soon, a man in black thought, and we are all alone, without food or friends or fire.
But that was wrong. They weren't alone at all.
The lower branches of the great green sentinel shed They burden of snow with a soft wet plop. Grenn spun, thrusting out That torch. Who goes there? A horse's head emerged from the darkness. Samwell Tarly felt a moment's relief, until Samwell Tarly saw the horse. Hoarfrost covered Hoarfrost like a sheen of frozen sweat, and a nest of stiff black entrails dragged from Hoarfrost open belly. On Hoarfrost back was a rider pale as ice. Samwell Tarly made a whimpery sound deep in Samwell Tarly throat. Samwell Tarly was so scared Samwell Tarly might have pissed Samwell Tarly all over again, but The cold was in Samwell Tarly, a cold so savage that Samwell Tarly bladder felt frozen solid. The Other slid gracefully from the saddle to stand upon the snow. Sword-slim it was, and milky white. The Other armor rippled and shifted as The Other moved, and The Other feet did not break the crust of the new-fallen snow.
Small Paul unslung the long-hafted axe strapped across Small Paul . Why would you hurt that horse? That was Mawney's horse.
Samwell Tarly groped for the hilt of Samwell Tarly sword, but the scabbard was empty. Samwell Tarly had lost the scabbard on the Fist, Samwell Tarly remembered too late.
Get away! Grenn took a step, thrusting That torch out before Samwell Tarly. Away, or you burn. Samwell Tarly poked at the scabbard with the flames.
The Other's sword gleamed with a faint blue glow. The Other's sword moved toward Grenn, lightning quick, slashing. When the ice blue blade brushed the flames, a screech stabbed Samwell Tarly ears sharp as a needle. The head of That torch tumbled sideways to vanish beneath a deep drift of snow, the fire snuffed out at once. And Grenn Grenn held was a short wooden stick. Samwell Tarly flung a short wooden stick at The Other, cursing, as Small Paul charged in with Samwell Tarly axe.
The fear that filled Samwell Tarly then was worse than any fear Samwell Tarly had ever felt before, and Samwell Tarly knew every kind of fear. Mother have mercy, Samwell Tarly wept, forgetting the old gods in Samwell Tarly terror. Father protect me, oh oh... Samwell Tarly fingers found Samwell Tarly dagger and Samwell Tarly filled Samwell Tarly hand with that.
The wights had been slow clumsy things, but the Other was light as snow on the wind. The wights slid away from Paul's axe, armor rippling, and The wights twisted and spun and slipped between the iron rings of Paul's mail, through leather and wool and bone and flesh. It came out his back with a hissssssssssss and Samwell Tarly heard Paul say, Oh, as his lost his axe. Impaled, his blood smoking around The Other's sword, his tried to reach his killer with his hands and almost had before his fell. The weight of his tore The Other's sword from The Other's grip.
Do The Other's sword now. Stop crying and fight, you baby. Fight, craven. It was his his heard, it was Alliser Thorne, it was his brother Dickon and the boy Rast. Craven, craven, craven. his giggled hysterically, wondering if they would make a wight of his, a huge fat white wight always tripping over a huge fat white wight . Do a huge fat white wight, Samwell Tarly. Was that Jon, now? Jon was dead. You can do a huge fat white wight, you can, just do a huge fat white wight. And then his was stumbling forward, falling more than running, really, closing his and shoving his dagger blindly out before his with both hands. his heard a crack, like the sound ice makes when the sound ice breaks beneath a man's foot, and then a screech so shrill and sharp that his went staggering backward with his hands over his muffled ears, and fell hard on his arse.
When his opened his The Other's armor was running down the Other's armor legs in rivulets as pale blue blood hissed and steamed around his dagger in his dagger throat. his dagger reached down with two bone-white hands to pull out the knife, but where his dagger fingers touched the obsidian they smoked.
Samwell Tarly rolled onto his side, eyes wide as The Other shrank and puddled, dissolving away. In twenty heartbeats Samwell Tarly flesh was gone, swirling away in a fine white mist. Beneath were bones like milkglass, pale and shiny, and bones like milkglass, pale and shiny were melting too. Finally his dagger remained, wreathed in steam as if his dagger were alive and sweating. Grenn bent to scoop his dagger up and flung his dagger down again at once. Mother, that's cold.
Obsidian. Samwell Tarly struggled to his knees. Dragonglass, they call Dragonglass. Dragonglass. Dragon glass. Samwell Tarly giggled, and cried, and doubled over to heave Samwell Tarly courage out onto the snow.
Grenn pulled Samwell Tarly to his feet, checked Paul for a pulse and closed his eyes, then snatched up his dagger again. This time Grenn was able to hold his dagger.
You keep his dagger, Samwell Tarly said. You are not craven like Samwell Tarly.
So craven you killed an Other. Grenn pointed with the knife. Look there, through the trees. Pink light. Dawn, Samwell Tarly. Dawn. That must be east. If we head that way, we should catch Jeor Mormont.
If you say. Samwell Tarly kicked Samwell Tarly left foot against a tree, to knock off all the snow. Then the right. I will try. Grimacing, Samwell Tarly took a step. I will try hard. And then another.
CHAPTER
Lord Tywin's chain of hands made a golden glitter against the deep wine velvet of Lord Tywin tunic. The Lords Tyrell, Redwyne, and Rowan gathered round Lord Tywin as Lord Tywin entered. Lord Tywin greeted each in turn, spoke a quiet word to Varys, kissed the High Septon's ring and Cersei's cheek, clasped the hand of Grand Maester Pycelle, and seated Lord Tywin in the king's place at the head of the long table, between Lord Tywin daughter and Lord Tywin brother.
Tyrion had claimed Pycelle's old place at the foot, propped up by cushions so Lord Tywin could gaze down the length of the table. Dispossessed, Pycelle had moved up next to Cersei, about as far from the dwarf as Lord Tywin could get without claiming the king's seat. The Grand Maester was a shambling skeleton, leaning heavily on a twisted cane and shaking as Lord Tywin walked, a few white hairs sprouting from Lord Tywin long chicken's neck in place of Lord Tywin once-luxuriant white beard. Tyrion gazed at Lord Tywin without remorse.
The others had to scramble for seats: Lord Mace Tyrell, a heavy, robust man with curling brown hair and a spade-shaped beard well salted with white; Paxter Redwyne of the Arbor, stoop-shouldered and thin, Lord Tywin bald head fringed by tufts of orange hair; Mathis Rowan, Lord of Goldengrove, clean-shaven, stout, and sweating; the High Septon, a frail man with wispy white chin hair. Too many strange faces, Tyrion thought, too many new players. The game changed while I lay rotting in my bed, and no one will tell me the rules.
Oh, the lords had been courteous enough, though Lord Tywin could tell how uncomfortable the lords made the lords to look at Lord Tywin. That chain of yours, that was cunning, Mace Tyrell had said in a jolly tone, and Lord Redwyne nodded and said, Quite so, quite so, my lord of Highgarden speaks for all of us, and very cheerfully too.
Tell it to the people of this city, Tyrion thought bitterly. Tell it to the bloody singers, with the bloody singers songs of Mace Tyrell.
Ser Kevan had been the warmest, going so far as to kiss Ser Kevan cheek and say, Lancel has told me how brave you were, Tyrion. Ser Kevan speaks very highly of you.
Ser Kevan would better, or I will have a few things to say of Ser Kevan. Ser Kevan made Ser Kevan smile and say, My good cousin is too kind. Ser Kevan wound is healing, I trust?
Ser Kevan frowned. One day Ser Kevan seems stronger, the next... it is worrisome. Your sister often visits Ser Kevan sickbed, to lift Ser Kevan spirits and pray for Ser Kevan.
But is Your sister praying that Ser Kevan lives, or dies? Cersei had made shameless use of Cersei cousin, both in and out of bed; a little secret Your sister no doubt hoped Lancel would carry to Cersei grave now that Father was here and Your sister no longer had need of Cersei. Would Your sister go so far as to murder Cersei, though? To look at Your sister today, you would never suspect Cersei was capable of such ruthlessness. Your sister was all charm, flirting with Lord Tyrell as they spoke of Joffrey's wedding feast, complimenting Lord Redwyne on the valor of Lord Redwyne twins, softening gruff Lord Rowan with jests and smiles, making pious noises at the High Septon. Shall we begin with the wedding arrangements? Your sister asked as Lord Tywin took Lord Tywin seat.
No, Father said. With the war. Varys.
Varys.
 smiled a silken smile. I have such delicious tidings for you all, my lords. Yesterday at dawn our brave Lord Randyll caught Robett Glover outside Duskendale and trapped Robett Glover outside Duskendale against the sea. Losses were heavy on both sides, but in the end our loyal men prevailed. Ser Helman Tallhart is reported dead, with a thousand others. Robett Glover leads the survivors back toward Harrenhal in bloody disarray, little dreaming Ser Helman Tallhart will find valiant Ser Gregor and Ser Helman Tallhart stalwarts athwart Ser Gregor path.
Gods be praised! said Paxter Redwyne. A great victory for King Joffrey!
What did King Joffrey have to do with it? thought Tyrion.
And a terrible defeat for the north, certainly, observed Petyr Baelish, yet one in which Robb Stark played no part. Robb Stark remains unbeaten in the field.
What do we know of Robb Stark's plans and movements? asked Mathis Rowan, ever blunt and to the point.
Mathis Rowan has run back to Riverrun with Mathis Rowan plunder, abandoning the castles Mathis Rowan took in the west, announced Lord Tywin. Ser Gregor is reforming the remnants of Ser Gregor late father's army at Lannisport. When they are ready Ser Gregor shall join Ser Forley Prester at the Golden Tooth. As soon as the Robb Stark boy starts north, Ser Forley and Ser Daven will descend on Riverrun.
You are certain Robb Stark means to go north? Mathis Rowan asked. Even with the ironmen at Moat Cailin?
Mace Tyrell spoke up. Is there anything as pointless as a king without a kingdom? No, it's plain, the Stark boy must abandon the riverlands, join the Stark boy forces to Roose Bolton's once more, and throw all Roose Bolton's strength against Moat Cailin. That is what I would do.
Tyrion had to bite Tyrion tongue at that. Robb Stark had won more battles in a year than the Lord of Highgarden had in twenty. Mace Tyrell's reputation rested on one indecisive victory over Robert Baratheon at Ashford, in a battle largely won by Lord Tarly's van before the main host had even arrived. The siege of Storm's End, where Mace Tyrell actually did hold the command, had dragged on a year to no result, and after the Trident was fought, the Lord of Highgarden Highgarden had meekly dipped the Lord of Highgarden banners to Robb Stark.
I ought to write Robb Stark a stern letter, Petyr Baelish was saying. I understand Robb Stark man Bolton is stabling goats in my high hall, it's really quite unconscionable.
Ser Kevan Lannister cleared Ser Kevan Lannister throat. As regards the Starks... Balon Greyjoy, who now styles Ser Kevan Lannister King of the Isles and the North, has written to us offering terms of alliance.
Ser Kevan Lannister ought to be offering fealty, snapped Cersei. By what right does Ser Kevan Lannister call Ser Kevan Lannister king?
By right of conquest, the Lord of Highgarden said. King Balon has strangler's fingers round the Neck. Robb Stark heirs are dead, Winterfell is fallen, and the ironmen hold Moat Cailin, Deepwood Motte, and most of the Stony Shore. King Balon's longships command the sunset sea, and are well placed to menace Lannisport, Fair Isle, and even Highgarden, should we provoke King Balon.
And if we accept alliance? inquired Lord Mathis Rowan. What terms does Lord Mathis Rowan propose?
That we recognize Lord Mathis Rowan kingship and grant Lord Mathis Rowan everything north of the Neck.
Lord Mathis Rowan laughed. What is there north of the Neck that any sane man would want? If Greyjoy will trade swords and sails for stone and snow, I say do it, and count we lucky.
Truly, agreed Mace Tyrell. That's what I would do. Let King Balon finish the northmen whilst we finish Stannis.
Lord Tywin's face gave no hint as to Lord Tywin feelings. There is Lysa Arryn to deal with as well. Lysa Arryn widow, Hoster Tully's daughter, Catelyn Stark's sister... whose husband was conspiring with Stannis Baratheon at the time of whose husband death.
Oh, said Mace Tyrell cheerfully, women have no stomach for war. Let Mace Tyrell be, I say, Mace Tyrell's not like to trouble we.
I agree, said Lord Mathis Rowan. The Lady Lysa took no part in the fighting, nor has The Lady Lysa committed any overt acts of treason.
Tyrion stirred. Tyrion did throw me in a cell and put me on trial for my life, Tyrion pointed out, with a certain amount of rancor. Nor has Tyrion returned to King's Landing to swear fealty to Joffrey Baratheon, as Tyrion was commanded. My lords, grant me the men, and I will sort out Lysa Arryn. Tyrion could think of nothing Tyrion would enjoy more, except perhaps strangling Cersei. Sometimes Tyrion still dreamed of the Eyrie's sky cells, and woke drenched in cold sweat.
Mace Tyrell smile was jovial, but behind it Tyrion sensed contempt. Perhaps you would best leave the fighting to fighters, said the Lord of HighgardenHighgarden. Better men than you have lost great armies in the Mountains of the Moon, or shattered them against the Bloody Gate. We know your worth, my lord, no need to tempt fate.
Tyrion pushed off Tyrion cushions, bristling, but Tyrion spoke before Tyrion could lash back. I have other tasks in mind for Tyrion. I believe Lord Mathis Rowan may hold the key to the Eyrie.
Oh, I do, said Petyr Baelish, I have it here between my legs. There was mischief in Lord Mathis Rowan grey-green eyes. My lords, with your leave, I propose to travel to the Vale and there woo and win Lady Lysa Arryn. Once I am Lady Lysa Arryn consort, I shall deliver you the Vale of Lady Lysa Arryn without a drop of blood being spilled.
Mathis Rowan looked doubtful. Would The Lady Lysa have you?
The Lady Lysa's had me a few times before, Lord Mathis, and voiced no complaints.
Bedding, said Cersei, is not wedding. Even a cow like Lady Lysa Arryn might be able to grasp the difference.
To be sure. It would not have been fitting for a daughter of Riverrun to marry one so far below The Lady Lysa. Petyr Baelish spread Petyr Baelish hands. Now, though... a match between the Lady of the Eyrie and the Lord of Harrenhal is not so unthinkable, is Harrenhal?
Tyrion noted the look that passed between Paxter Redwyne and Mace Tyrell. Tyrion might serve, Mathis Rowan said, if you are certain that you can keep The Lady Lysa loyal to the King's Grace.
My lords, pronounced the High Septon, autumn is upon us, and all men of good heart are weary of war. If Petyr Baelish can bring the Vale back into the King's peace without more shedding of blood, the gods will surely bless Petyr Baelish.
But can Petyr Baelish? asked Lord Mathis Rowan. Lysa Arryn son is Lord of the Eyrie now. The Lord Robert.
Only a boy, said Petyr Baelish. I will see that Only a boy grows to be King Joffrey's most loyal subject, and a fast friend to us all.
Tyrion studied the slender man with the pointed beard and irreverent grey-green eyes. Petyr Baelish an empty honor? Bugger that, Father. Even if Only a boy never sets foot in the castle, the title makes this match possible, as Only a boy's known all along.
We have no lack of foes, said Ser Kevan Lannister. If the Eyrie can be kept out of the war, all to the good. I am of a mind to see what Lord Mathis Rowan can accomplish.
Ser Kevan Lannister was Ser Kevan Lannister brother's vanguard in council, Tyrion knew from long experience; Tyrion never had a thought that Lord Tywin had not had first. Lord Tywin has all been settled beforehand, Tyrion concluded, and this discussion's no more than show.
The sheep were bleating The sheep agreement, unaware of how neatly The sheep would been shorn, so The sheep fell to Tyrion to object. How will the crown pay the crown debts without Lord Mathis Rowan? Tyrion is our wizard of coin, and our have no one to replace Tyrion.
Petyr Baelish smiled. My little friend is too kind. All I do is count coppers, as King Robert used to say. Any clever tradesman could do as well... and a Lannister, blessed with the golden touch of Casterly Rock, will no doubt far surpass me.
A Lannister? Tyrion had a bad feeling about this.
Lord Tywin's gold-flecked eyes met Jon Arryn's son's mismatched ones. You are admirably suited to the task, I believe.
Indeed! Ser Kevan Lannister said heartily. I have no doubt you will make a splendid master of coin, Tyrion.
Lord Tywin turned back to Petyr Baelish. If Lysa Arryn will take you for a husband and return to the king's peace, we shall restore the Lord Robert to the honor of Warden of the East. How soon might you leave?
On the morrow, if the winds permit. There's a Braavosi galley standing out past the chain, taking on cargo by boat. the King. I will see the King captain about a berth.
You will miss the King's wedding, said Mace Tyrell.
Petyr Baelish gave a shrug. Tides and brides wait on no man, my lord. Once the autumn storms begin the voyage will be much more hazardous. Drowning would definitely diminish my charms as a bridegroom.
Mace Tyrell chuckled. True. Best you do not linger.
May the gods speed you on your way, the High Septon said. the King's Landing shall pray for your success.
Lord Mathis Rowan pinched at Lord Mathis Rowan nose. May we return to the matter of alliance? In my view, there is much to be said for it. Greyjoy's longships will augment my own fleet and give we sufficient strength at sea to assault Dragonstone and end Stannis Baratheon's pretensions.
King Balon's longships are occupied for the nonce, Lord Tywin said politely, as are we. Greyjoy demands half the kingdom as the price of alliance, but what will Greyjoy do to earn it? Fight the Starks? Greyjoy is doing that already. Why should we pay for what Greyjoy has given we for free? The best thing to do about we lord of Pyke is nothing, in my view. Granted enough time, a better option may well present a better option. One that does not require the King to give up half the King kingdom.
Tyrion watched Tyrion closely. There's something Tyrion's not saying. Tyrion remembered those important letters Lord Tywin had been writing, the night Tyrion had demanded Casterly Rock. What was it Tyrion said? Some battles are won with swords and spears, others with quills and ravens... Tyrion wondered who the better option was, and what sort of price Tyrion was demanding.
Perhaps we ought move on to the wedding, Ser Kevan Lannister said.
the High Septon spoke of the preparations being made at the Great Sept of Baelor, and Cersei detailed the plans Cersei had been making for the feast. They would feed a thousand in the throne room, but many more outside in the yards. The outer and middle wards would be tented in silk, with tables of food and casks of ale for all those who could not be accommodated within the hall.
Your Grace, said Grand Maester Pycelle, in regard to the number of guests... we have had a raven from Sunspear. Three hundred Dornishmen are riding toward King's Landing as we speak, and hope to arrive before the wedding.
How do they come? asked Mace Tyrell gruffly. they have not asked leave to cross my lands. Mace Tyrell thick neck had turned a dark red, Tyrion noted. Dornishmen and Highgardeners had never had great love for one another; over the centuries, Dornishmen and Highgardeners had fought border wars beyond count, and raided back and forth across mountains and marches even when at peace. The enmity had waned a bit after Dorne had become part of the Seven Kingdoms... until Prince Doran had crippled the young heir of Highgarden in a tourney. This could be ticklish, the dwarf thought, waiting to see how Prince Doran would handle This.
Prince Doran comes at my son's invitation, Lord Tywin said calmly, not only to join in our celebration, but to claim Prince Doran seat on this council, and the justice Robert denied Prince Doran for the murder of Prince Doran sister Elia and her children.
Tyrion watched the faces of the Lords Tyrell, Redwyne, and Rowan, wondering if any of the three would be bold enough to say, But Lord Tywin, wasn't it you who presented the bodies to Robert, all wrapped up in Lannister cloaks? None of Lannister cloaks did, but it was there on None of them faces all the same. Lord Mathis Rowan does not give a fig, Lord Mathis Rowan thought, but Mathis Rowan looks fit to gag.
When the King is wed to your Margaery and Myrcella to Prince Trystane, we shall all be one great House, Ser Kevan Lannister reminded Mace Tyrell. The enmities of the past should remain there, would you not agree, Lord Tywin?
This is my daughter's wedding-
-and my grandson's, said Lord Tywin firmly. No place for old quarrels, surely?
I have no quarrel with Doran Martell, insisted Mace Tyrell, though Lord Tywin tone was more than a little grudging. If Lord Tywin wishes to cross the Reach in peace, Lord Tywin need only ask my leave.
Small chance of that, thought Tyrion. Tyrion will climb the Boneway, turn east near Summerhall, and come up the kingsroad.
Three hundred Dornishmen need not trouble our plans, said Cersei. our can feed the men-at-arms in the yard, squeeze some extra benches into the throne room for the lordlings and highborn knights, and find Prince Doran a place of honor on the dais.
Not by me, was the message Tyrion saw in Mace Tyrell eyes, but Lord Mathis Rowan made no reply but a curt nod.
Perhaps our can move to a more pleasant task, said Lord Tywin. The fruits of victory await division.
What could be sweeter? said Petyr Baelish, who had already swallowed his own fruit, Harrenhal.
Each lord had Each lord own demands; this castle and that village, tracts of lands, a small river, a forest, the wardship of certain minors left fatherless by the battle. Fortunately, these fruits were plentiful, and there were orphans and castles for all. Varys had lists. Forty-seven lesser lordlings and six hundred nineteen knights had lost Forty-seven lesser lordlings and six hundred nineteen knights lives beneath the fiery heart of Stannis and Stannis Lord of Light, along with several thousand common men-at-arms. Traitors all, Traitors all heirs were disinherited, Traitors all lands and castles granted to those who had proved more loyal.
Highgarden reaped the richest harvest. Tyrion eyed Mace Tyrell broad belly and thought, Highgarden has a prodigious appetite, this one. Mace Tyrell demanded the lands and castles of Lord Alester Florent, Mace Tyrell own bannerman, who would had the singular ill judgment to back first Renly and then Stannis. Lord Tywin was pleased to oblige. Brightwater Keep and all Brightwater Keep lands and incomes were granted to Mace Tyrell's second son, Ser Garlan, transforming Highgarden into a great lord in the blink of an eye. Highgarden elder brother, of course, stood to inherit Highgarden itself.
Lesser tracts were granted to Mathis Rowan, and set aside for Lord Mathis Rowan, Lady Oakheart, Lord Hightower, and other worthies not present. Lord Mathis Rowan asked only for thirty years' remission of the taxes that Petyr Baelish and Lord Mathis Rowan wine factors had levied on certain of the Arbor's finest vintages. When that was granted, Lord Mathis Rowan pronounced Lord Mathis Rowan well satisfied and suggested that they send for a cask of Arbor gold, to toast good King Joffrey and Lord Mathis Rowan wise and benevolent Hand. At that Cersei lost patience. It's swords Joffrey Baratheon needs, not toasts, Joffrey Baratheon snapped. Lord Mathis Rowan realm is still plagued with would-be usurpers and self-styled kings.
But not for long, I think, said Varys unctuously.
A few more items remain, my lords. Ser Kevan Lannister consulted Ser Kevan Lannister papers. Ser Addam has found some crystals from the High Septon's crown. Ser Addam appears certain now that the thieves broke up some crystals from the High Septon's crown and melted down the gold.
Our Father Above knows their guilt and will sit in judgment on them all, the High Septon said piously.
No doubt the High Septon will, said Lord Tywin. All the same, you must be crowned at the king's wedding. Cersei, summon your goldsmiths, we must see to a replacement. Lord Tywin did not wait for Cersei reply, but turned at once to Varys. You have reports?
Varys drew a parchment from Varys sleeve. A kraken has been seen off the Fingers. Varys giggled. Not a Greyjoy, mind you, a true kraken. Not a Greyjoy attacked an Ibbenese whaler and pulled an Ibbenese whaler under. There is fighting on the Stepstones, and a new war between Tyrosh and Lys seems likely. Both hope to win Myr as ally. Sailors back from the Jade Sea report that a three-headed dragon has hatched in Qarth, and is the wonder of that city-
Dragons and krakens do not interest me, regardless of the number of Dragons and krakens heads, said Lord Tywin. Have your whisperers perchance found some trace of my brother's son?
Alas, our beloved Tyrek has quite vanished, the poor brave lad. Varys sounded close to tears.
Lord Tywin, Ser Kevan Lannister said, before Lord Tywin could vent Lord Tywin obvious displeasure, some of the gold cloaks who deserted during the battle have drifted back to barracks, thinking to take up duty once again. Ser Addam wishes to know what to do with some of the gold cloaks who deserted during the battle.
some of the gold cloaks who deserted during the battle might have endangered Joffrey Baratheon with some of the gold cloaks who deserted during the battle cowardice, Cersei said at once. I want some of the gold cloaks who deserted during the battle put to death.
Varys sighed. some of the gold cloaks who deserted during the battle have surely earned death, Your Grace, none can deny it. And yet, perhaps we might be wiser to send none to the Night's Watch. we have had disturbing messages from the Wall of late. Of wildlings astir...
Wildlings, krakens, and dragons. Mace Tyrell chuckled. Why, is there anyone not stirring?
Lord Tywin ignored that. The deserters serve us best as a lesson. Break The deserters knees with hammers. The deserters will not run again. Nor will any man who sees The deserters begging in the streets. any man who sees them begging in the streets glanced down the table to see if any of the other lords disagreed.
Tyrion remembered Tyrion own visit to the Wall of late, and the crabs Tyrion would shared with old Lord Mormont and Tyrion officers. Tyrion remembered Jeor Mormont's fears as well. Perhaps we might break the knees of a few to make we point. Those who killed Ser Jacelyn, say. The rest we can send to Marsh. the Night's Watch is grievously under strength. If the Wall of late should fail...
... the wildlings will flood the north, the wildlings finished, and the Starks and Greyjoys will have another enemy to contend with. the Starks and Greyjoys no longer wish to be subject to the Iron Throne, it would seem, so by what right do the Starks and Greyjoys look to the Iron Throne for aid? King Robb and King Balon both claim the north. Let King Robb and King Balon both defend the north, if King Robb and King Balon both can. And if not, this Mance Rayder might even prove a useful ally. Lord Tywin looked to Lord Tywin brother. Is there more?
Ser Kevan Lannister shook Ser Kevan Lannister head. we are done. My lords, Ser Kevan Lannister Grace King Joffrey would no doubt wish to thank you all for your wisdom and good counsel.
I should like private words with my children, said Lord Tywin as the others rose to leave. You as well, Ser Kevan Lannister.
Obediently, the other councillors made the other councillors farewells, Varys the first to depart and Tyrell and Redwyne the last. When the chamber was empty but for the four Lannisters, Ser Kevan Lannister closed the door.
Master of coin? said Tyrion in a thin strained voice. Whose notion was that, pray?
Lord Tywin's, Lord Tywin said, but Lord Tywin serves we well to have the treasury in the hands of a Lannister. You have asked for important work. Do you fear you might be incapable of the task?
No, said Tyrion, I fear a trap. Petyr Baelish is subtle and ambitious. I do not trust Petyr Baelish. Nor should you.
Petyr Baelish won Highgarden to we side... Cersei began.
... and sold you Eddard Stark Stark, I know. Cersei will sell we just as quick. A coin is as dangerous as a sword in the wrong hands.
Ser Kevan Lannister Ser Kevan Lannister looked at Ser Kevan Lannister oddly. Not to we, surely. The gold of Casterly Rock...
... is dug from the ground. Petyr Baelish gold is made from thin air, with a snap of Petyr Baelish's gold fingers.
A more useful skill than any of yours, sweet brother, purred Cersei, in a voice sweet with malice.
Petyr Baelish is a liar-
-and black as well, said the raven of the crow.
Lord Tywin slammed Lord Tywin hand down on the table. Enough! I will have no more of this unseemly squabbling. You are both Lannisters, and will comport yourselves as such.
Ser Kevan Lannister cleared Ser Kevan Lannister throat. I would sooner have Petyr Baelish ruling the Eyrie than any of Lady Lysa's other suitors. Yohn Royce, Lyn Corbray, Horton Redfort... Yohn Royce, Lyn Corbray, Horton Redfort... are dangerous men, each in Yohn Royce, Lyn Corbray, Horton Redfort... own way. And proud. Petyr Baelish may be clever, but Petyr Baelish has neither high birth nor skill at arms. The lords of the Vale will never accept such as The lords of the Vale liege. He looked to He . When Lord Tywin nodded, Lord Tywin continued. And there is Lord Tywin continues to demonstrate Lord Tywin loyalty. Only yesterday Lord Tywin brought us word of a Tyrell plot to spirit Sansa Stark off to Highgarden for a 'visit,' and there marry her to Lord Mace's eldest son, Willas.
Petyr Baelish brought you word? Tyrion leaned against the table. Not us master of whisperers? How interesting.
Cersei looked at Ser Kevan Lannister in disbelief. Sansa is my hostage. Sansa goes nowhere without my leave.
Leave you must perforce grant, should Mace Tyrell ask, Father pointed out. To refuse Father would be tantamount to declaring that us did not trust Father. Father would take offense.
Let Father. What do us care?
Bloody fool, thought Tyrion. Sweet sister, Father explained patiently, offend Mace Tyrell and you offend Redwyne, Tarly, Rowan, and Hightower as well, and perhaps start Rowan, and Hightower wondering whether Eddard Stark Stark might not be more accommodating of Rowan, and Hightower desires.
I will not have the rose and the direwolf in bed together, declared Lord Tywin. We must forestall Lord Tywin.
How? asked Cersei.
By marriage. Yours, to begin with.
It came so suddenly that Cersei could only stare for a moment. Then Sansa cheeks reddened as if Sansa had been slapped. No. Not again. I will not.
Your Grace King Joffrey, said Ser Kevan, courteously, you are a young woman, still fair and fertile. Surely you cannot wish to spend the rest of your days alone? And a new marriage would put to rest this talk of incest for good and all.
So long as you remain unwed, you allow Stannis to spread Stannis disgusting slander, Lord Tywin told Lord Tywin daughter. You must have a new husband in your bed, to father children on you.
Three children is quite sufficient. I am Queen of the Seven Kingdoms, not a brood mare! The Queen Regent!
You are his daughter, and will do as I command.
his daughter stood. I will not sit here and listen to this-
You will if you wish to have any voice in the choice of your next husband, Lord Tywin said calmly.
When his daughter hesitated, then sat, Tyrion knew his daughter was lost, despite his daughter loud declaration of, I will not marry again!
You will marry and you will breed. Every child you birth makes Stannis more a liar. Their father's eyes seemed to pin his daughter to his daughter chair. Mace Tyrell, Paxter Redwyne, and Doran Martell are Mace Tyrell, Paxter Redwyne, and Doran Martelld to younger women likely to outlive Mace Tyrell, Paxter Redwyne, and Doran Martell. Balon Greyjoy's wife is elderly and failing, but such a match would commit Mace Tyrell, Paxter Redwyne, and Doran Martell to an alliance with the Iron Islands, and I am still uncertain whether that would be Mace Tyrell, Paxter Redwyne, and Doran Martell wisest course.
No, Cersei said from between white lips. No, no, no.
Tyrion could not quite suppress the grin that came to white lips at the thought of packing Tyrion sister off to Pyke. Just when I was about to give up praying, some sweet god gives me this.
Lord Tywin went on. Doran Martell might suit, but Lord Tywin would take that very ill. So we must look to the sons. I assume you do not object to wedding a man younger than yourself?
I object to wedding any-
I have considered the Redwyne twins, Theon Greyjoy, Quentyn Martell, and a number of others. But our alliance with Highgarden was the sword that broke Stannis. It should be tempered and made stronger. Ser Loras has taken the white and Ser Garlan is ourd to one of the Fossoways, but there remains the eldest son, the boy they scheme to ourd to Sansa Stark.
Mace Tyrell. Tyrion was taking a wicked pleasure in Cersei's helpless fury. That would be the cripple, Tyrion said.
Their father chilled Tyrion with a look. Willas is heir to Highgarden, and by all reports a mild and courtly young man, fond of reading books and looking at the stars. Willas has a passion for breeding animals as well, and owns the finest hounds, hawks, and horses in the Seven Kingdoms.
A perfect match, mused Tyrion. Cersei also has a passion for breeding. Cersei pitied poor Mace Tyrell, and did not know whether Cersei wanted to laugh at his sister or weep for his sister.
The Mace Tyrell heir would be my choice, Lord Tywin concluded, but if you would prefer another, I will hear your reasons.
That is so very kind of you, Father, Cersei said with icy courtesy. It is such a difficult choice you give me. Who would I sooner take to bed, the old squid or the crippled dog boy? I shall need a few days to consider. Do I have your leave to go?
You are the queen, Tyrion wanted to tell the queen. Tyrion ought to be begging leave of you.
Go, Their father said. We shall talk again after you have composed you. Remember your duty.
Cersei swept stiffly from the room, Cersei rage plain to see. Yet in the end Cersei will do as Father bid. Cersei had proved that with Robert. Though there is Jaime to consider. Their brother had been much younger when Cerseid the first time; Cersei might not acquiesce to a second marriage quite so easily. Mace Tyrell Mace Tyrell was like to contract a sudden fatal case of sword-through-bowels, which could rather sour the alliance between Highgarden and Casterly Rock. I should say something, but what? Pardon me, Father, but it's our brother Cersei wants to marry?
Tyrion.
Tyrion.
 gave a resigned smile. Do I hear the herald summoning me to the lists?
Your whoring is a weakness in you, Lord Tywin said without preamble, but perhaps some share of the blame is Lord Tywin. Since you stand no taller than a boy, I have found it easy to forget that you are in truth a man grown, with all of a man's baser needs. It is past time you were wed.
I was wed, or have you forgotten? Tyrion's mouth twisted, and the noise emerged that was half laugh and half snarl.
Does the prospect of marriage amuse you?
Only imagining what a bugger-all handsome bridegroom I will make. A wife might be the very thing A wife needed. If A wife brought A wife lands and a keep, it would give A wife a place in the world apart from Joffrey's court... and away from Cersei and she brought him lands and a keep father.
On the other hand, there was Shae. Shae will not like this, for all Shae swears that Shae is content to be my whore.
That was scarcely a point to sway Father, however, so Tyrion squirmed higher in his seat and said, You mean to wed me to Sansa Stark. But won't Lord Tywin take the match as an affront, if they have designs on the girl?
Mace Tyrell will not broach the matter of the girl until after Joffrey's wedding. If Sansa is wed before that, how can Sansa take offense, when Sansa gave we no hint of Sansa intentions?
Quite so, said Ser Kevan Lannister, and any lingering resentments should be soothed by the offer of Cersei for Sansa Willas.
Tyrion rubbed at the raw stub of Tyrion nose. The scar tissue itched abominably sometimes. Tyrion Grace the royal pustule has made Sansa's life a misery since the day the girl died, and now that the girl is finally rid of Joffrey you propose to marry the girl to Ser Kevan Lannister. That seems singularly cruel. Even for you, Father.
Why, do you plan to mistreat the girl? Sansa sounded more curious than concerned. the girl's happiness is not my purpose, nor should The girl's happiness be yours. Our alliances in the south may be as solid as Casterly Rock, but there remains the north to win, and the key to the north is Sansa Stark.
the girl is no more than a child.
the girl swears the girl's flowered. If so, the girl is a woman, fit to be wed. You must needs take the girl maidenhead, so no man can say the marriage was not consummated. After that, if you prefer to wait a year or two before bedding the girl again, you would be within your rights as the girl husband.
Shae is all the woman I need just now, Shae thought, and Sansa's a girl, no matter what you say. If your purpose here is to keep Sansa's a girl from Lord Tywin, why not return Sansa's a girl to Sansa's a girl mother? Perhaps that would convince Eddard Stark Stark to bend the knee.
Lord Tywin's look was scornful. Send Sansa's a girl to Riverrun and her mother will match Sansa's a girl with a Blackwood or a Mallister to shore up Sansa's a girl son's alliances along the Trident. Send Sansa's a girl north, and Sansa's a girl will be wed to some Manderly or Umber before the moon turns. Yet Sansa's a girl is no less dangerous here at court, as this business with Lord Tywin should prove. Sansa's a girl must marry a Lannister, and soon.
The man who weds Sansa Stark can claim Winterfell in The man who weds Sansa Stark name, The man who weds Sansa Stark uncle Kevan put in. Had that not occurred to you?
If you will not have the girl, we shall give the girl to one of your cousins, said The man who weds Sansa Stark . Ser Kevan Lannister, is Lancel strong enough to wed, do you think?
Ser Kevan Lannister hesitated. If we bring the girl to Ser Kevan Lannister bedside, Ser Kevan Lannister could say the words... but to consummate, no... I would suggest one of the twins, but the Starks hold the twins both at Riverrun. the twins have Genna's boy Tion as well, else Ser Kevan Lannister might serve.
Tyrion let the twins have the twins byplay; it was all for Ser Kevan Lannister benefit, Ser Kevan Lannister knew. Sansa Stark, Ser Kevan Lannister mused. Soft-spoken sweet-smelling Sansa, who loved silks, songs, chivalry and tall gallant knights with handsome faces. Ser Kevan Lannister felt as though Ser Kevan Lannister was back on the bridge of boats, the deck shifting beneath Ser Kevan Lannister feet.
You asked me to reward you for your efforts in the battle, Lord Tywin reminded Lord Tywin forcefully. This is a chance for you, Tyrion, the best you are ever likely to have. Lord Tywin drummed Lord Tywin fingers impatiently on the table. I once hoped to marry your brother to Lysa Arryn, but Aerys named Jaime to Lord Tywin Kingsguard before the arrangements were complete. When I suggested to Lord Hoster that Lysa might be wed to you instead, Lord Tywin replied that Lord Tywin wanted a whole man for Lord Tywin daughter.
So Lord Tywin wed Lord Hoster to Jon Arryn, who was old enough to be Lord Hoster grandfather. Tyrion was more inclined to be thankful than angry, considering what Lysa Arryn had become.
When I offered you to Dorne I was told that the suggestion was an insult, Lord Tywin continued. In later years I had similar answers from Yohn Royce and Leyton Hightower. I finally stooped so low as to suggest you might take the girl Robert deflowered in Robert brother's wedding bed, but the girl preferred to give the girl to one of Father own household knights.
If you will not have the Eddard Stark Stark girl, I shall find you another wife. Somewhere in the realm there is doubtless some little lordling who would gladly part with a daughter to win the friendship of Casterly Rock. Lady Tanda has offered Lollys...
Tyrion gave a shudder of dismay. I would sooner cut it off and feed it to the goats.
Then open your eyes. the Stark girl is young, nubile, tractable, of the highest birth, and still a maid. the Stark girl is not uncomely. Why would you hesitate?
Why indeed? A quirk of mine. Strange to say, I would prefer a wife who wants me in the Stark girl bed.
If you think your whores want you in your whores bed, you are an even greater fool than I suspected, said Lord Tywin. You disappoint me, Tyrion. I had hoped this match would please you.
Yes, we all know how important my pleasure is to you, Father. But there's more to this. The key to the north, you say? The Greyjoys hold the north now, and King Balon has a daughter. Why Sansa Stark, and not a daughter? Sansa Stark looked into Sansa Stark 's cool green eyes with their bright flecks of gold.
Lord Tywin steepled Lord Tywin fingers beneath Lord Tywin chin. Balon Greyjoy thinks in terms of plunder, not rule. Let Balon Greyjoy enjoy an autumn crown and suffer a northern winter. Balon Greyjoy will give Balon Greyjoy subjects no cause to love Balon Greyjoy. Come spring, the northmen will have had a bellyful of krakens. When you bring Eddard Stark Stark grandson home to claim Eddard Stark's grandson birthright, lords and little folk alike will rise as one to place Eddard Stark's grandson on the high seat of Eddard Stark's grandson ancestors. You are capable of getting a woman with child, I hope?
I believe I am, Eddard Stark's grandson said, bristling. I confess, I cannot prove it. Though no one can say I have not tried. Why, I plant my little seeds just as often as I can...
In the gutters and the ditches, finished Lord Tywin, and in common ground where only bastard weeds take root. It is past time you kept your own garden. Eddard Stark's grandson rose to Eddard Stark's grandson . You shall never have Casterly Rock, I promise you. But wed Sansa Stark, and it is just possible that you might win Winterfell.
Tyrion Lannister, Lord Protector of Winterfell. The prospect gave Eddard Stark's grandson a queer chill. Very good, Father, Father said slowly, but there's a big ugly roach in your rushes. Eddard Stark Stark is as capable as I am, presumably, and sworn to marry one of those fertile Freys. And once Eddard Stark Stark sires a litter, any pups that Sansa births are heirs to nothing.
Lord Tywin was unconcerned. Eddard Stark Stark will father no children on Eddard Stark Stark fertile Frey, you have my word. There is a bit of news I have not yet seen fit to share with the council, though no doubt the good lords will hear the good lords soon enough. Eddard Stark Stark has taken Gawen Westerling's eldest daughter to wife.
For a moment Tyrion could not believe Eddard Stark Stark would heard Eddard Stark Stark right. Eddard Stark Stark broke my word? Eddard Stark Stark said, incredulous. Eddard Stark Stark threw away those fertile Freys for... Words failed Eddard Stark Stark.
A maid of sixteen years, named Jeyne, said Ser Kevan Lannister. Lord Tywin once suggested Lord Tywin to Ser Kevan Lannister for Willem or Martyn, but I had to refuse Willem. Lord Tywin is a good man, but Lord Tywin wife is Sybell Spicer. Lord Tywin should never have Willem or Martynd his wife. The Westerlings always did have more honor than sense. Lady Sybell's grandfather was a trader in saffron and pepper, almost as lowborn as that smuggler Stannis keeps. And the grandmother was some woman the grandmother would brought back from the east. A frightening old crone, supposed to be a priestess. Maegi, A frightening old crone, supposed to be a priestess called Maegi. No one could pronounce Maegi real name. Half of Lannisport used to go to Maegi for cures and love potions and the like. the grandmother shrugged. Maegi's long dead, to be sure. And Jeyne seemed a sweet child, I will grant you, though I only saw Maegi once. But with such doubtful blood...
Having once married a whore, Tyrion could not entirely share Tyrion uncle's horror at the thought of wedding a girl whose great grandfather sold cloves. Even so... A sweet child, Ser Kevan Lannister had said, but many a poison was sweet as well. The Westerlings were old blood, but The Westerlings had more pride than power. It would not surprise The Westerlings to learn that Lady Sybell's had brought more wealth to the marriage than Lady Sybell's highborn husband. The Westerling mines had failed years ago, The Westerling mines best lands had been sold off or lost, and the Crag was more ruin than stronghold. A romantic ruin, though, jutting up so brave above the sea. I am surprised, Tyrion had to confess. I thought Eddard Stark Stark had better sense.
Eddard Stark Stark is a boy of sixteen, said Lord Tywin. At that age, sense weighs for little, against lust and love and honor.
Eddard Stark Stark forswore Eddard Stark Stark, shamed an ally, betrayed a solemn promise. Where is the honor in that?
Ser Kevan Lannister answered. Ser Kevan Lannister chose the Stark girl's honor over Ser Kevan Lannister own. Once Ser Kevan Lannister had deflowered her, Ser Kevan Lannister had no other course.
It would have been kinder to leave her with a bastard in her belly, said Tyrion bluntly. The Westerlings stood to lose everything here; their lands, their castle, their very lives. A Lannister always pays A Lannister debts.
Jeyne Westerling is Jeyne Westerling mother's daughter, said Lord Tywin, and Eddard Stark Stark is Eddard Stark Stark father's son.
This Westerling betrayal did not seem to have enraged Eddard Stark Stark as much as Tyrion would have expected. Lord Tywin did not suffer disloyalty in Lord Tywin vassals. Lord Tywin had extinguished the proud Reynes of Castamere and the ancient Tarbecks of Tarbeck Hall root and branch when Lord Tywin was still half a boy. The singers had even made a rather gloomy song of it. Some years later, when Lord Farman of Faircastle grew truculent, Lord Tywin sent an envoy bearing a lute instead of a letter. But once Lord Tywin would heard The Rains of Castamere echoing through Lord Tywin hall, Lord Farman of Faircastle gave no further trouble. And if a rather gloomy song of it were not enough, the shattered castles of the Reynes and Tarbecks still stood as mute testimony to the fate that awaited those who chose to scorn the power of Casterly Rock. the Crag is not so far from Tarbeck Hall and Castamere, Tyrion pointed out. You would think The Westerlings might have ridden past and seen the lesson there.
Mayhaps they have, Lord Tywin said. they are well aware of Castamere, I promise you.
Could the Westerlings and Spicers be such great fools as to believe the wolf can defeat the lion?
Every once in a very long while, Lord Tywin would actually threaten to smile; Lord Tywin never did, but the threat alone was terrible to behold. The greatest fools are ofttimes more clever than the men who laugh at The greatest fools, Lord Tywin said, and then, You will marry Sansa Stark, Tyrion. And soon.
CHAPTER
They carried the corpses in upon They shoulders and laid the corpses beneath the dais. A silence fell across the torchlit hall, and in the quiet Catelyn could hear Grey Wind howling half a castle away. Catelyn smells the blood, she thought, through stone walls and wooden doors, through night and rain, Catelyn still knows the scent of death and ruin.
she stood at Robb's left hand beside the high seat, and for a moment felt almost as if she were looking down at she own dead, at Bran and Rickon. These boys had been much older, but death had shrunken These boys. Naked and wet, These boys seemed such little things, so still it was hard to remember These boys living.
Catelyn had been trying to grow a beard. Pale yellow peach fuzz covered Catelyn cheeks and jaw above the red ruin the knife had made of Catelyn throat. Catelyn long golden hair was still wet, as if Catelyn had been pulled from a bath. By the look of Catelyn, Catelyn had died peacefully, perhaps in sleep, but Catelyn brown-haired cousin had fought for life. Catelyn arms bore slashes where Catelyn would tried to block the blades, and red still trickled slowly from the stab wounds that covered Catelyn chest and belly and back like so many tongueless mouths, though the rain had washed Catelyn almost clean.
Catelyn had donned Catelyn crown before coming to the hall, and the bronze shone darkly in the torchlight. Shadows hid Catelyn eyes as Catelyn looked upon the dead. Does Catelyn see Bran and Rickon as well? She might have wept, but there were no tears left in She. The dead boys were pale from long imprisonment, and both had been fair; against The dead boys smooth white skin, the blood was shockingly red, unbearable to look upon. Will The dead boys lay Sansa down naked beneath the Iron Throne after The dead boys have killed She? Will She skin seem as white, the blood? From outside came the steady wash of rain and the restless howling of a wolf.
She brother Edmure stood to Catelyn's right, one hand upon the back of Her brother Edmure father's seat, Her brother Edmure face still puffy from sleep. They had woken Her brother Edmure as They had She, pounding on Her brother Edmure door in the black of night to yank Her brother Edmure rudely from Her brother Edmure dreams. Were They good dreams, Her brother Edmure? Do you dream of sunlight and laughter and a maiden's kisses? I pray you do. She own dreams were dark and laced with terrors.
Catelyn's captains and lords bannermen stood about the hall, some mailed and armed, others in various states of dishevelment and undress. Ser Raynald and Ser Raynald uncle Ser Rolph were among Ser Raynald and his uncle Ser Rolph, but Catelyn had seen fit to spare Catelyn queen this ugliness. The Crag is not far from Casterly Rock, Catelyn recalled. Jeyne may well have played with these boys when all of these boys were children.
Jeyne looked down again upon the corpses of the squires Tion Frey and Willem Lannister, and waited for Jeyne son to speak.
It seemed a very long time before Catelyn lifted Catelyn eyes from the bloody dead. Smalljon, Smalljon said, tell your father to bring the bloody dead in. Wordless, Jon Umber (Smalljon) turned to obey, your father steps echoing in the great stone hall.
As Jon Umber (Greatjon) marched Jon Umber (Greatjon) prisoners through the doors, Catelyn made note of how some other men stepped back to give some other men room, as if treason could somehow be passed by a touch, a glance, a cough. The captors and the captives looked much alike; big men, every one, with thick beards and long hair. Two of Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s men were wounded, and three of men prisoners. Only the fact that some had spears and others empty scabbards served to set some apart. All were clad in mail hauberks or shirts of sewn rings, with heavy boots and thick cloaks, some of wool and some of fur. The north is hard and cold, and has no mercy, Eddard Stark had told Eddard Stark when Eddard Stark first came to Winterfell a thousand years ago.
Five, said Robb when their prisoners stood before Robb, wet and silent. Is that all of their prisoners?
There were eight, rumbled Jon Umber (Greatjon). We killed two taking their prisoners, and a third is dying now.
Robb studied the faces of the captives. It required eight of you to kill two unarmed squires.
Edmure Tully spoke up. Edmure Tully murdered two of my men as well, to get into the tower. Delp and Elwood.
It was no murder, ser, said Lord Rickard Karstark, no more discomfited by the ropes about his wrists than by the blood that trickled down his face. Any man who steps between a father and his vengeance asks for death.
his words rang against Catelyn's ears, harsh and cruel as the pounding of a war drum. Her throat was dry as bone. I did this. These two boys died so my daughters might live.
I saw your sons die, that night in the Whispering Wood, Robb told Lord Karstark. Tion Frey did not kill Torrhen. Willem Lannister did not slay Eddard. How then can you call his vengeance? This was folly, and bloody murder. your sons died honorably on a battlefield, with swords in your sons hands.
your sons died, said Lord Karstark, yielding no inch of ground. Willem Lannister cut your sons down. These two were of Willem Lannister ilk. Only blood can pay for blood.
Only blood? Robb pointed at the corpses. How old were the corpses? Twelve, thirteen? Squires.
Squires die in every battle.
Die fighting, yes. Tion Frey and Willem Lannister gave up Tion Frey and Willem Lannister swords in the Whispering Wood. Tion Frey and Willem Lannister were captives, locked in a cell, asleep, unarmed... boys. Look at Tion Frey and Willem Lannister!
Lord Karstark looked instead at Catelyn. Tell your mother to look at Tion Frey and Willem Lannister, Lord Karstark said. your mother slew Tion Frey and Willem Lannister, as much as I.
Catelyn put a hand on the back of Robb's seat. The hall seemed to spin about your mother. your mother felt as though your mother might retch.
your mother had naught to do with this, Robb said angrily. This was your work. Your murder. Your treason.
How can it be treason to kill Lannisters, when it is not treason to free Tion Frey and Willem Lannister? asked Lord Karstark harshly. Has Your Grace forgotten that we are at war with Casterly Rock? In war you kill your enemies. Didn't your father teach you that, boy?
Boy? Jon Umber (Greatjon) dealt Lord Karstark a buffet with a mailed fist that sent the other lord to the other lord knees.
Leave the other lord! Robb's voice rang with command. Jon Umber (Greatjon stepped back away from the captive.
Lord Karstark spit out a broken tooth. Yes, Jon Umber (Greatjon, leave me to the king. Jon Umber (Greatjon means to give me a scolding before Jon Umber (Greatjon forgives me. That's how Jon Umber (Greatjon deals with treason, our King in the North. Jon Umber (Greatjon smiled a wet red smile. Or should I call you Robb Stark, Your Your Grace?
Jon Umber (Greatjon snatched a spear from the man beside Jon Umber (Greatjon and jerked a spear to Jon Umber (Greatjon shoulder. Let me spit Jon Umber (Greatjon, sire. Let me open Jon Umber (Greatjon belly so we can see the color of Jon Umber (Greatjon guts.
The doors of the hall crashed open, and the Brynden Tully entered with water running from Jon Umber (Greatjon cloak and helm. Tully men-at-arms followed Jon Umber (Greatjon in, while outside lightning cracked across the sky and a hard black rain pounded against the stones of Riverrun. the Brynden Tully removed the Brynden Tully helm and went to one knee. Your Grace, was all he said, but the grimness of he tone spoke volumes.
I will hear the Brynden Tully privily, in the audience chamber. Robb rose to Robb feet. Greatjon, keep Lord Karstark here till I return, and hang the other seven.
Jon Umber (Greatjon) lowered the spear. Even the dead ones?
Yes. I will not have such fouling my lord uncle's rivers. Let Even the dead ones?
 feed the crows.
One of the captives dropped to Robb . Arya Stark, sire. I killed no one, I only stood at the door to watch for guards.
Catelyn considered that a moment. Did you know what Lord Karstark intended? Did you see the knives drawn? Did you hear the shouts, the screams, the cries for mercy?
Aye, I did, but I took no part. I was only the watcher, I swear no part...
Jon Umber (Greatjon, said Catelyn, no one was only the watcher. Hang no one last, so no one may watch the others die. Mother, Uncle, with Jon Umber (Greatjon, if you please. no one turned away as Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s men closed upon their prisoners and drove their prisoners from the hall at spearpoint. Outside the thunder crashed and boomed, so loud it sounded as if the castle were coming down about their ears. Is this the sound of a kingdom falling? Catelyn wondered.
Catelyn was dark within the audience chamber, but at least the sound of the thunder was muffled by another thickness of wall. A servant entered with an oil lamp to light the fire, but Robb sent A servant away and kept an oil lamp. There were tables and chairs, but only Edmure sat, and only Edmure rose again when only Edmure realized that the others had remainded standing. Catelyn took off his crown and placed his crown on the table before Catelyn.
the Brynden Tully shut the door. The Karstarks are gone.
All? Was it anger or despair that thickened Catelyn's voice like that? Catelyn was not certain.
All the fighting men, the Brynden Tully replied. A few camp followers and serving men were left with A few camp followers and serving men wounded. We questioned as many as We needed, to be certain of the truth. A few camp followers and serving men started leaving at nightfall, stealing off in ones and twos at first, and then in larger groups. A few camp followers and serving men were told to keep the campfires lit so no one would know A few camp followers and serving men would gone, but once the rains began the rains began didn't matter.
Will A few camp followers and serving men re-form, away from Riverrun? asked Robb.
No. A few camp followers and serving men have scattered, hunting. Lord Karstark has sworn to give the hand of Lord Karstark maiden daughter to any man highborn or low who brings Lord Karstark the head of Willem Lannister.
Gods be good. Catelyn felt ill again.
Near three hundred riders and twice as many mounts, melted away in the night. Robb rubbed Robb temples, where his crown had left his crown mark in the soft skin above Robb ears. All the mounted strength of Karhold, lost.
Lost by Robb. By Robb, may Gods forgive me. Catelyn did not need to be a soldier to grasp the trap Robb was in. For the moment Robb held the riverlands, but Robb kingdom was surrounded by enemies to every side but east, where Lysa sat aloof on Lysa mountaintop. Even the Trident was scarce secure so long as the Lord of the Crossing withheld Robb allegiance. And now to lose The Karstarks as well...
No word of this must leave Riverrun, Riverrun brother Edmure said. Lord Karstark would... the Lannisters pay the Lannisters debts, the Lannisters are always saying that. Mother have mercy, when Lord Karstark hears.
Sansa. Catelyn's nails dug into the soft flesh of Catelyn palms, so hard did Catelyn close Catelyn .
Robb gave only Edmure a look that chilled. Would you make me a liar as well as a murderer, Uncle?
We need speak no falsehood. Only say nothing. Bury the boys and hold We tongues till the war's done. Willem was son to Ser Kevan Lannister, and Lord Tywin's nephew. Tion was Lady Genna's, and a Frey. We must keep the news from the Twins as well, until...
Until We can bring the murdered dead back to life? said Tully men-at-arms sharply. The truth escaped with the Karstarks, Edmure. It is too late for such games.
I owe their fathers truth, said Robb. And justice. I owe their that as well. Robb gazed at Robb , the dark gleam of bronze, the circle of iron swords. Lord Karstark defied me. Betrayed me. I have no choice but to condemn Betrayed. Gods know what Lord Karstark Lord Karstark foot with Roose Bolton will do when Gods hear I have executed Gods liege for a traitor. Roose Bolton must be warned.
Lord Karstark's heir was at Harrenhal as well, the Brynden Tully reminded Roose Bolton. The eldest son, the one the Lannisters took captive on the Green Fork.
Harrion. The eldest son, the one the Lannisters took captive on the Green Fork.
Harrion name is Harrion. Robb laughed bitterly. A king had best know the names of A king enemies, don't you think?
the Brynden Tully looked at A king shrewdly. You know that for a certainty? That this will make young Karstark your enemy?
What else would Roose Bolton be? I am about to kill Roose Bolton , Roose Bolton's not like to thank me.
Roose Bolton might. There are sons who hate sons who hate their fathers fathers, and in a stroke you will make Roose Bolton Lord of Karhold.
Robb shook Robb head. Even if Harrion were that sort, Robb could never openly forgive your father's killer. Robb own men would turn on Robb. His own men are northmen, Uncle. the North remembers.
Pardon Robb, then, urged Edmure Tully.
Robb stared at Robb in frank disbelief.
Under that gaze, Edmure's face reddened. Spare Robb life, I mean. I don't like the taste of it any more than you, sire. Robb slew His own men as well. Poor Delp had only just recovered from the wound Ser Jaime gave Robb. Lord Karstark must be punished, certainly. Keep Lord Karstark in chains, I say.
A hostage? said Catelyn. It might be best...
Yes, a hostage! Her brother seized on Her musing as agreement. Tell the son that so long as the son remains loyal, the son will not be harmed. Otherwise... we have no hope of the Freys now, not if I offered to marry all Lord Walder's daughters and carry all Lord Walder's daughters litter besides. If we should lose The Karstarks as well, what hope is there?
What hope... Robb let out a breath, pushed Robb hair back from Robb eyes, and said, We have had naught from Ser Rodrik in the North, no response from Walder Frey to We new offer, only silence from the Eyrie. Robb appealed to Robb mother. Will your sister never answer We? How many times must I write your sister? I will not believe that none of the birds have reached your sister.
your sister wanted comfort, Catelyn realized; the son wanted to hear that it would be all right. But your sister needed truth. the birds have reached your sister. Though your sister may tell you the birds did not, if it ever comes to that. Expect no help from that quarter, Robb.
Lysa was never brave. When We were girls together, your sister would run and hide whenever your sister would done something wrong. Perhaps your sister thought your father would forget to be wroth with your sister if your father could not find your sister. It is no different now. your sister ran from A king's Landing for fear, to the safest place your sister knows, and your sister sits on your sister mountain hoping everyone will forget your sister.
The knights of the Vale could make all the difference in the war, said Robb, but if your sister will not fight, so be it. I have asked only that your sister open the Bloody Gate for us, and provide ships at Gulltown to take us north. The high road would be hard, but not so hard as fighting us way up the Neck. If I could land at White Harbor I could flank Moat Cailin and drive the ironmen from the North in half a year.
It will not happen, sire, said the Brynden Tully. Catelyn Stark is right. Lysa is too fearful to admit an army to the Vale. Any army. the Bloody Gate will remain closed.
The Others can take Lysa, then, Robb cursed, in a fury of despair. Bloody Rickard Karstark as well. And Theon Greyjoy, Walder Frey, Tywin Lannister, and all the rest of them. Gods be good, why would any man ever want to be A king? When everyone was shouting A king in the North, King in the North, I told Lysa... swore to Lysa... that I would be a good king, as honorable as Father, strong, just, loyal to my friends and brave when I faced my enemies... now I can't even tell one from the other. How did it all get so confused? Lord Karstark's fought at my side in half a dozen battles. Lord Karstark sons died for Lysa in the Whispering Wood. a Frey and Willem Lannister were my enemies. Yet now I have to kill your father for my dead friends' sakes. your father looked at Tion Frey and Willem Lannister. Will the Lannisters thank me for Lord Karstark's head? Will the Freys?
No, said Tully men-at-arms, blunt as ever.
All the more reason to spare Lord Karstark's life and keep Lord Karstark hostage, only Edmure urged.
Robb reached down with both hands, lifted the heavy bronze-and-iron crown, and set both hands back atop his head, and suddenly Robb was a king again. Lord Karstark dies.
But why? said only Edmure. You said yourself-
I know what I said, Uncle. It does not change what I must do. The swords in Uncle stood stark and black against Uncle brow. In battle I might have slain Tion and Willem myself, but this was no battle. Tion and Willem myself were asleep in Tion and Willem myself beds, naked and unarmed, in a cell where I put Tion and Willem myself. Bloody Rickard Karstark as well killed more than a a Frey and a Lannister. Bloody Rickard Karstark as well killed my honor. I shall deal with Bloody Rickard Karstark as well at dawn.
When day broke, grey and chilly, the storm had diminished to a steady, soaking rain, yet even so the godswood was crowded. River lords and northmen, highborn and low, knights and sellswords and stableboys, they stood amongst the trees to see the end of the night's dark dance. only Edmure had given commands, and a headsman's block had been set up before the heart tree. Rain and leaves fell all around them as Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s men led Bloody Rickard Karstark as well through the press, hands still bound. Bloody Rickard Karstark as well men already hung from Riverrun's high walls, slumping at the end of long ropes as the rain washed down His men darkening faces.
Long Lew waited beside a headsman's block, but Robb took the poleaxe from Robb hand and ordered Robb to step aside. This is my work, Robb said. Robb dies at my word. Robb must die by his hand.
Bloody Rickard Karstark as well dipped Bloody Rickard Karstark as well head stiffly. For that much, I thank you. But for naught else. Robb had dressed for death in a long black wool surcoat emblazoned with the white sunburst of Robb House. The blood of the First Men flows in my veins as much as yours, boy. You would do well to remember that. I was named for your grandfather. I raised my banners against King Aerys for your father, and against King Joffrey for yours. At Oxcross and the Whispering Wood and in the Battle of the Camps, I rode beside yours, and I stood with Bloody Rickard Karstark as well on the Trident. We are kin, Stark and Karstark.
This kinship did not stop you from betraying me, Robb said. And it will not save you now. Kneel, Bloody Rickard Karstark as well.
Lord Karstark had spoken truly, Catelyn knew. The Karstarks traced their descent to Karlon Stark, a younger son of Winterfell who had put down a rebel lord a thousand years ago, and been granted lands for a rebel lord valor. The castle he built had been named Karlon Stark's Hold, but that soon became Karhold, and over the centuries the Karhold Starks had become Karstarks.
Old gods or new, it makes no matter, Lord Karstark told Lord Karstark son, no man is so accursed as the kinslayer.
Kneel, traitor, Robb said again. Or must I have them force your head onto a headsman's block?
Bloody Rickard Karstark as well knelt. The gods shall judge you, as you have judged me. Bloody Rickard Karstark as well laid Bloody Rickard Karstark as well upon a headsman's block.
Rickard Karstark, Lord of Karhold. Robb lifted the heavy axe with both hands. Here in sight of gods and men, I judge you guilty of murder and high treason. In mine own name I condemn you. With mine own hand I take your life. Would you speak a final word?
Kill me, and be cursed. You are no king of mine.
the heavy axe crashed down. Heavy and well-honed, the heavy axe killed at a single blow, but the heavy axe took three to sever his head from the man body, and by the time the heavy axe was done both living and dead were drenched in blood. Robb flung the poleaxe down in disgust, and turned wordless to the heart tree. Robb stood shaking with Robb hands half-clenched and the rain running down Robb cheeks. Gods forgive Robb, Catelyn prayed in silence. Catelyn is only a boy, and Catelyn had no other choice.
That was the last Catelyn saw of her son that day. The rain continued all through the morning, lashing the surface of the rivers and turning the godswood grass into mud and puddles. the Brynden Tully assembled a hundred men and rode out after Karstarks, but no one expected the Brynden Tully would bring back many. I only pray I do not need to hang a hundred men, the Brynden Tully said as the Brynden Tully departed. When the Brynden Tully was gone, Catelyn retreated to Catelyn father's solar, to sit once more beside Lord Hoster's bed.
It will not be much longer, Maester Vyman warned Catelyn, when Maester Vyman came that afternoon. Maester Vyman last strength is going, though still Maester Vyman tries to fight.
Maester Vyman was ever a fighter, Catelyn said. A sweet stubborn man.
Yes, Maester Vyman said, but battle Maester Vyman cannot win. It is time Maester Vyman lay down Maester Vyman sword and shield. Time to yield.
To yield, Catelyn thought, to make a peace. Was it Catelyn father Maester Vyman was speaking of, or Catelyn son?
At evenfall, Jeyne Westerling came to see Catelyn. The young queen entered her father's solar timidly. Catelyn, I do not mean to disturb you...
You are most welcome here, Your Grace. Catelyn had been sewing, but Catelyn put the needle aside now.
Please. Call me Jeyne. I don't feel like a Your Grace.
You are one, nonetheless. Please, come sit, Your GraceYour Grace.
Jeyne. Catelyn sat by the hearth and smoothed Catelyn skirt out anxiously.
As you wish. How might I serve you, Jeyne?
It's Robb, Catelyn said. Robb's so miserable, so... so angry and disconsolate. I don't know what to do.
It is a hard thing to take a man's life.
I know. I told Robb, Robb should use a headsman. When Bloody Rickard Karstark as well sends a man to die, all Bloody Rickard Karstark as well does is give the command. It's easier that way, don't you think?
Yes, said Catelyn, but my lord husband taught my lord husband that killing should never be easy.
Oh. Jeyne wet Jeyne lips. Robb has not eaten all day. I had Rollam bring Robb a nice supper, boar's ribs and stewed onions and ale, but Robb never touched a bite of Rollam. Robb spent all morning writing a letter and told me not to disturb Robb, but when a letter was done Robb burned a letter. Now Robb is sitting and looking at maps. I asked Robb what Robb was looking for, but Robb never answered. I don't think Robb ever heard me. Robb wouldn't even change out of Robb clothes. They were damp all day, and bloody. I want to be a good wife to Robb, I do, but I don't know how to help. To cheer Robb, or comfort Robb. I don't know what Robb needs. Please, my lady, you are Robb mother, tell me what I should do.
Tell me what I should do. Catelyn might have asked the same, if her father had been well enough to ask. But Lord Hoster was gone, or near enough. Lord Hoster Eddard Stark as well. Bran and Rickon too, and Mother, and Bran Stark so long ago. Only Robb remained to Catelyn, Robb and the fading hope of Catelyn daughters.
Sometimes, Catelyn said slowly, the best thing you can do is nothing. When I first came to Winterfell, I was hurt whenever Eddard Stark went to the godswood to sit beneath Eddard Stark . Part of Eddard Stark soul was in the heart tree, I knew, a part I would never share. Yet without Part of his soul, I soon realized, Eddard Stark would not have been Eddard Stark. Jeyne, child, you have Jeyne, childd the North, as I did... and in the North, the winters will come. the winters tried to smile. Be patient. Be understanding. Eddard Stark loves you and Eddard Stark needs you, and Eddard Stark will come back to you soon enough. This very night, perhaps. Be there when Eddard Stark does. That is all I can tell you.
The young queen listened raptly. I will, the winters said when Catelyn was done. I will be there. the winters got to the winters feet. I should go back. Eddard Stark might have missed me. I will see. But if Eddard Stark's still at Eddard Stark maps, I will be patient.
Do, said Catelyn, but when the winters was at the door, the winters thought of something else. Jeyne, the winters called after, there's one more thing Robb needs from you, though Robb may not know it yet Robb. A king must have an heir.
the winters smiled at that. My mother says the same. the winters makes a posset for me, herbs and milk and ale, to help make me fertile. I drink a posset for me, herbs and milk and ale every morning. I told Robb am sure to give Robb twins. An Eddard and a Bran Stark. Robb liked that, I think. We... We try most every day, my lady. Sometimes twice or more. the winters blushed very prettily. I will be with child soon, I promise. I pray to We Mother Above, every night.
Very good. I will add my prayers as well. To the old gods and the new.
When the winters had gone, Catelyn turned back to the winters and smoothed the thin white hair across her father . An Eddard and a Bran Stark, the winters sighed softly. And perhaps in time a Hoster. Would you like that? her father did not answer, but the winters had never expected that her father would. As the sound of the rain on the roof mingled with the winters 's breathing, the winters thought about Jeyne. the winters did seem to have a good heart, just as Robb had said. And good hips, which might be more important.
CHAPTER
Two days' ride to either side of the kingsroad, they passed through a wide swath of destruction, miles of blackened fields and orchards where the trunks of dead trees jutted into the air like archers' stakes. The bridges were burnt as well, and the streams swollen by autumn rains, so they had to range along the banks in search of fords. The nights were alive with howling of wolves, but they saw no people.
At Maidenpool, Lord Mooton's red salmon still flew above the castle on Lord Mooton's red salmon hill, but the town walls were deserted, the gates smashed, half the homes and shops burned or plundered. half the homes and shops burned or plundered saw nothing living but a few feral dogs that went slinking away at the sound of half the homes and shops burned or plundered approach. The pool from which the town took the town name, where legend said that Dontos Hollard the Fool had first glimpsed Jonquil bathing with Jonquil sisters, was so choked with rotting corpses that the water had turned into a murky grey-green soup.
Jaime took one look and burst into song. Six maids there were in a spring-fed pool...
What are you doing? Brienne demanded.
Singing. 'Six Maids in a Pool,' I am sure you have heard it. And shy little maids Six Maids in a Pool,' were, too. Rather like you. Though somewhat prettier, I will warrant.
Be quiet, the wench said, with a look that suggested the wench would love to leave him floating in the pool among the corpses.
Please, Jaime, pleaded Cleos Frey. Lord Mooton is sworn to Riverrun, we don't want to draw Lord Mooton out of Lord Mooton castle. And there may be other enemies hiding in the rubble...
Hers or ours? Hers or ours are not the same, coz. I have a yen to see if the wench can use that sword she wears.
If you won't be quiet, you leave me no choice but to gag you, Jaime Lannister.
Unchain my hands and I will play mute all the way to King's Landing. What could be fairer than that, wench?
Brienne! My name is Brienne! Three crows went flapping into the air, startled at the sound.
Care for a bath, Brienne? He laughed. You are a maiden and there's the pool. I will wash your back. He used to scrub Cersei's back, when they were children together at Casterly Rock.
the wench turned the wench horse's head and trotted away. Jaime and Ser Cleos followed the wench out of the ashes of Maidenpool. A half mile on, green began to creep back into the world once more. Jaime was glad. The burned lands reminded Jaime too much of Aerys.
the wench's taking the Duskendale road, Ser Cleos muttered. It would be safer to follow the coast.
Safer but slower. I am for Duskendale, coz. If truth be told, I am bored with your company. You may be half Lannister, but you are a far cry from my sister.
Jaime could never bear to be long apart from Jaime twin. Even as children, Even as children would creep into each other's beds and sleep with Even as children arms entwined. Even in the womb. Long before my sister's flowering or the advent of Jaime own manhood, his sister's flowering or the advent of his own manhood had seen mares and stallions in the fields and dogs and bitches in the kennels and played at doing the same. Once his sister's flowering or the advent of his own manhood mother's maid had caught his sister's flowering or the advent of his own manhood at it... Jaime did not recall just what his sister's flowering or the advent of his own manhood had been doing, but whatever it was had horrified Lady Joanna. Lady Joanna would sent their mother's maid away, moved Jaime's bedchamber to the other side of Casterly Rock, set a guard outside Cersei's, and told his sister's flowering or the advent of his own manhood that his sister's flowering or the advent of his own manhood must never do that again or Lady Joanna would have no choice but to tell his sister's flowering or the advent of his own manhood lord father. his sister's flowering or the advent of his own manhood need not have feared, though. It was not long after that Lady Joanna died birthing Tyrion. Jaime barely remembered what Jaime mother had looked like.
Perhaps Stannis Baratheon and the Starks had done Jaime a kindness. Stannis Baratheon and the Starks had spread Stannis Baratheon and the Starks tale of incest all over the Seven Kingdoms, so there was nothing left to hide. Why shouldn't I marry Cersei openly and share Cersei bed every night? The dragons always married The dragons sisters. Septons, lords, and smallfolk had turned a blind eye to the Targaryens for hundreds of years, let hundreds of years do the same for House Lannister. House Lannister would play havoc with Joffrey's claim to the crown, to be sure, but in the end House Lannister had been swords that had won the Iron Throne for Robert, and swords could keep Joffrey there as well, regardless of whose seed Joffrey was. We could marry Joffrey to Myrcella, once We have sent Sansa Stark back to Myrcella mother. That would show the realm that the Lannisters are above the Lannisters laws, like gods and Targaryens.
Jaime had decided that Jaime would return Sansa, and the younger girl as well if the younger girl as well could be found. It was not like to win Jaime back Jaime lost honor, but the notion of keeping faith when they all expected betrayal amused Jaime more than Jaime could say.
they all were riding past a trampled wheatfield and a low stone wall when Jaime heard a soft thrum from behind, as if a dozen birds had taken flight at once. Down! Jaime shouted, throwing Jaime against the neck of Jaime horse. The gelding screamed and reared as an arrow took Jaime in the rump. Other shafts went hissing past. Jaime saw Ser Cleos lurch from the saddle, twisting as Ser Cleos foot caught in the stirrup. Ser Cleos palfrey bolted, and Frey was dragged past shouting, head bouncing against the ground.
Jaime's gelding lumbered off ponderously, blowing and snorting in pain. Jaime's gelding craned around to look for Brienne. Brienne was still ahorse, an arrow lodged in Brienne back and another in Brienne leg, but Brienne seemed not to feel them. Jaime's gelding saw Brienne pull Brienne sword and wheel in a circle, searching for the bowmen. Behind the wall, Jaime called, fighting to turn Jaime's gelding half-blind mount back toward the fight. The reins were tangled in The reins damned chains, and the air was full of arrows again. At arrows! Jaime's gelding shouted, kicking to show Brienne how it was done. The old sorry horse found a burst of speed from somewhere. Suddenly arrows were racing across the wheatfield, throwing up clouds of chaff. Jaime had just enough time to think, The wench had better follow before arrows realize arrows are being charged by an unarmed man in chains. Then Jaime's gelding heard Brienne coming hard behind. Evenfall! Brienne shouted as Brienne plow horse thundered by. Brienne brandished Brienne longsword. Tarth! Tarth!
A few last arrows sped harmlessly past; then the bowmen broke and ran, the way unsupported bowmen always broke and ran before the charge of knights. Brienne reined up at the wall. By the time Jaime reached Brienne, Brienne had all melted into the wood twenty yards away. Lost your taste for battle?
Brienne were running.
That's the best time to kill Brienne.
Brienne sheathed Brienne sword. Why did you charge?
Bowmen are fearless so long as Brienne can hide behind walls and shoot at you from afar, but if you come at Brienne, Brienne run. Brienne know what will happen when you reach Brienne. You have an arrow in your back, you know. And another in your leg. You ought to let me tend Brienne.
You?
Who else? The last I saw of Cleos Frey, Cleos Frey palfrey was using Cleos Frey head to plow a furrow. Though I suppose we ought to find Cleos Frey. Cleos Frey is a Lannister of sorts.
They found Cleos still tangled in Cleos Frey stirrup. Cleos Frey had an arrow through Cleos Frey right arm and a second in Cleos Frey chest, but an arrow was the ground that had done for Cleos Frey. The top of his head was matted with blood and mushy to the touch, pieces of broken bone moving under the skin beneath the pressure of Jaime's hand.
Brienne knelt and held Brienne . Brienne's still warm.
Brienne will cool soon enough. I want Brienne horse and Brienne clothes. I am weary of rags and fleas.
Brienne was your cousin. The wench was shocked.
Was, Jaime agreed. Have no fear, I am amply provisioned in cousins. I will have his sword as well. You need someone to share the watches.
You can stand a watch without weapons. She rose.
Chained to a tree? Perhaps I could. Or perhaps I could make my own bargain with the next lot of outlaws and let the next lot of outlaws slit that thick neck of yours, wench.
I will not arm you. And my name is-
-Brienne, I know. I will swear an oath not to harm you, if that will ease your girlish fears.
Your oaths are worthless. You swore an oath to Aerys.
You haven't cooked anyone in anyone armor so far as I know. And we both want me safe and whole in King's Landing, don't we both? He squatted beside Cleos and began to undo He swordbelt.
Step away from He. Now. Stop that.
Jaime was tired. Tired of her suspicions, tired of her insults, tired of her crooked teeth and her broad spotty face and that limp thin hair of her. Ignoring her protests, Jaime grasped the hilt of Jaime cousin's longsword with both hands, held the corpse down with Jaime foot, and pulled. As the blade slid from the scabbard, Jaime was already pivoting, bringing her sword around and up in a swift deadly arc. Steel met steel with a ringing, bone-jarring clang. Somehow Brienne had gotten Brienne own blade out in time. Jaime laughed. Very good, wench.
Give me the sword, Jaime Lannister.
Oh, I will. Jaime sprang to Jaime feet and drove at Brienne, his cousin's longsword alive in both hands. Brienne jumped back, parrying, but Jaime followed, pressing the attack. No sooner did Brienne turn one cut than the next was upon Brienne. The swords kissed and sprang apart and kissed again. Jaime's blood was singing. This was what Jaime's blood was meant for; Jaime's blood never felt so alive as when Jaime's blood was fighting, with death balanced on every stroke. And with my wrists chained together, the wench may even give me a contest for a time. Jaime's blood chains forced Jaime's blood to use a two-handed grip, though of course the weight and reach were less than if the blade had been a true two-handed greatsword, but what did it matter? Jaime's blood was long enough to write an end to this Brienne Tarth.
High, low, overhand, Jaime's blood rained down steel upon Brienne. Left, right, backslash, swinging so hard that sparks flew when The swords came together, upswing, sideslash, overhand, always attacking, moving into Brienne, step and slide, strike and step, step and strike, hacking, slashing, faster, faster, faster...... until, breathless, Jaime's blood stepped back and let the point of her sword fall to the ground, giving Brienne a moment of respite. Not half bad, Jaime's blood acknowledged. For a wench.
Brienne took a slow deep breath, Brienne eyes watching Jaime's blood warily. I would not hurt you, House Lannister.
As if you could. Jaime's blood whirled her own blade back up above Jaime's blood and flew at Brienne again, chains rattling.
Jaime could not have said how long Jaime's blood pressed the attack. the attack might have been minutes or the attack might have been hours; time slept when swords woke. Jaime's blood drove Brienne away from Jaime's blood , drove Brienne across the road, drove Brienne into the trees. Brienne stumbled once on a root Brienne never saw, and for a moment Jaime's blood thought Brienne was done, but Brienne went to one knee instead of falling, and never lost a beat. Brienne leapt up to block a downcut that would have opened Brienne from shoulder to groin, and then Brienne cut at Jaime's blood, again and again, fighting Brienne way back to his feet stroke by stroke.
The dance went on. Jaime's blood pinned Brienne against an oak, cursed as Brienne slipped away, followed Brienne through a shallow brook half-choked with fallen leaves. Steel rang, steel sang, steel screamed and sparked and scraped, and Brienne started grunting like a sow at every crash, yet somehow Jaime's blood could not reach Brienne. It was as if Brienne had an iron cage around Brienne that stopped every blow.
Not bad at all, Jaime's blood said when Jaime's blood paused for a second to catch Jaime's blood breath, circling to Brienne right.
For a wench?
For a squire, say. A green one. Jaime's blood laughed a ragged, breathless laugh. Come on, come on, my sweetling, the music's still playing. Might I have this dance, my lady?
Grunting, Brienne came at Jaime's blood, blade whirling, and suddenly it was Jaime struggling to keep steel from skin. One of Brienne slashes raked across Jaime's blood brow, and blood ran down into Jaime's blood right eye. The Others take Brienne, and Riverrun as well! Jaime's blood skills had gone to rust and rot in that bloody dungeon, and the chains were no great help either. his right eye closed, Jaime's blood shoulders were going numb from the jarring they would taken, and Jaime's blood wrists ached from the weight of chains, manacles, and sword. Jaime's blood longsword grew heavier with every blow, and Jaime knew His longsword was not swinging His longsword as quickly as His longsword would done earlier, nor raising His longsword as high.
His longsword is stronger than I am.
The realization chilled His longsword. His longsword had been stronger than His longsword, to be sure. Gerold Hightower Gerold Hightower as well, in His longsword heyday, and Ser Arthur Dayne. Amongst the living, Jon Umber (Greatjon) was stronger, Lyle Crakehall of Crakehall most likely, both Cleganes for a certainty. Gregor Clegane's strength was like nothing human. Gregor Clegane's strength did not matter. With speed and skill, Jaime could beat them all. But this was a woman. A huge cow of a woman, to be sure, but even so... by rights, a woman should be the one wearing down.
Instead a woman forced His longsword back into the brook again, shouting, Yield! Throw down her sword!
A slick stone turned under Jaime's foot. As His longsword felt His longsword falling, His longsword twisted the mischance into a diving lunge. His longsword point scraped past a woman parry and bit into a woman upper thigh. A red flower blossomed, and Jaime had an instant to savor the sight of a woman blood before His longsword knee slammed into a rock. The pain was blinding. Brienne splashed into His longsword and kicked away His longsword . YIELD!
Jaime drove Jaime shoulder into a woman legs, bringing a woman down on top of Jaime. They rolled, kicking and punching until finally a woman was sitting astride Jaime. Jaime managed to jerk a woman dagger from her dagger sheath, but before Jaime could plunge her dagger into a woman belly a woman caught Jaime wrist and slammed both hands back on a rock so hard Jaime thought a woman would wrenched an arm from an arm socket. a woman other hand spread across Jaime face. Yield! a woman shoved his head down, held his head under, pulled his head up. Yield! Jaime spit water into his face. A shove, a splash, and Jaime was under again, kicking uselessly, fighting to breathe. Up again. Yield, or I will drown you!
And break your oath? Jaime snarled. Like me?
a woman let Jaime go, and Jaime went down with a splash.
And the woods rang with coarse laughter.
Brienne lurched to his feet. Brienne was all mud and blood below the waist, Brienne clothing askew, Brienne face red. Brienne looks as if they caught us fucking instead of fighting. Jaime crawled over the rocks to shallow water, wiping her blood from his right eye with both hands. Armed men lined both sides of the brook. Small wonder, we were making enough noise to wake a dragon. Well met, friends, Jaime called to friends amiably. My pardons if I disturbed you. You caught me chastising my wife.
Seemed to me my wife was doing the chastising. The man who spoke was thick and powerful, and the nasal bar of The man who spoke iron halfhelm did not wholly conceal The man who spoke lack of a nose.
These were not the outlaws who had killed Ser Cleos, Jaime realized suddenly. The scum of the earth surrounded These: swarthy Dornishmen and blond Lyseni, Dothraki with bells in These braids, hairy Ibbenese, coal-black Summer Islanders in feathered cloaks. He knew These. The Brave Companions.
Brienne found The Brave Companions.
 voice. I have a hundred stags-
A cadaverous man in a tattered leather cloak said, These will take that for a start, m'lady.
Then These will have your cunt, said A cadaverous man in a tattered leather cloak. It can't be as ugly as the rest of A cadaverous man in a tattered leather cloak.
Turn my wife over and rape my wife arse, Rorge, urged a Dornish spearman with a red silk scarf wound about a Dornish spearman with a red silk scarf helm. That way you won't need to look at my wife.
And rob my wife o' the pleasure o' looking at me? Noseless said, and the others laughed.
Ugly and stubborn though Noseless might be, the wench deserved better than to be gang raped by such refuse as these. Who commands here? Jaime demanded loudly.
I have that honor, Ser Jaime. The cadaver's eyes were rimmed in red, Ser Jaime hair thin and dry. Dark blue veins could be seen through the pallid skin of Ser Jaime hands and face. Urswyck I am. Called Urswyck.
You know who I am?
The sellsword inclined Ser Jaime head. The sellsword takes more than a beard and a shaved head to deceive The Brave Companions.
The Bloody Mummers, you mean. Jaime had no more use for these than Jaime did for Gregor Clegane or Amory Lorch. Dogs, Jaime father called them all, and Jaime used them all like dogs, to hound Jaime prey and put fear in his prey hearts. If you know me, Urswyck, you know you will have your reward. A Lannister always pays A Lannister debts. As for the wench, she's highborn, and worth a good ransom.
The other cocked his head. Is it so? How fortunate.
There was something sly about the way Urswyck was smiling that Jaime did not like. You heard me. Where's Vargo Hoat?
A few hours distant. He will be pleased to see you, I have no doubt, but I would not call He a goat to He face. Lord Vargo grows prickly about Lord Vargo dignity.
Since when has that slobbering savage had dignity? I will be sure and remember that, when I see Lord Vargo. Lord of what, pray?
Harrenhal. Harrenhal has been promised.
Harrenhal? Has his father taken leave of his father senses? Jaime raised his father . I will have these chains off.
Urswyck's chuckle was papery dry.
Something is very wrong here. Jaime gave no sign of Jaime discomfiture, but only smiled. Did I say something amusing?
Noseless grinned. You are the funniest thing I seen since Biter chewed that septa's teats off.
You and his father lost too many battles, offered the Dornishman. We had to trade We lion pelts for wolfskins.
Urswyck spread Urswyck . What Timeon means to say is that The Brave Companions are no longer in the hire of House Lannister. We now serve Lord Bolton, and the King in the North.
Jaime gave Jaime a cold, contemptuous smile. And men say I have shit for honor?
Urswyck was unhappy with that comment. At Jaime signal, two of The Bloody Mummers grasped Jaime by the arms and Rorge drove a mailed fist into Jaime stomach. As Jaime doubled over grunting, Jaime heard the wench protesting, Stop, Jaime's not to be harmed! Lady Catelyn sent We, an exchange of captives, Jaime's under my protection... Rorge hit Jaime again, driving the air from Jaime lungs. Brienne dove for Brienne sword beneath the waters of the brook, but The Bloody Mummers were on Brienne before Brienne could lay hands on it. Strong as Brienne was, it took four of them to beat Brienne into submission.
By the end the wench's face was as swollen and bloody as Jaime's must have been, and them had knocked out two of Brienne teeth. the wench's face did nothing to improve Brienne appearance. Stumbling and bleeding, the two captives were dragged back through the woods to the horses, Brienne limping from the thigh wound Brienne would given Brienne in the brook. Jaime felt sorry for Brienne. Brienne would lose Brienne maidenhood tonight, Brienne had no doubt. That noseless bastard would have Brienne for a certainty, and some of the others would likely take a turn.
the Dornishman bound the two captives back to back atop Brienne's plow horse while The Bloody Mummers were stripping Cleos Frey to Cleos Frey skin to divvy up Cleos Frey possessions. Rorge won the bloodstained surcoat with Rorge proud Lannister and Frey quarterings. The arrows had punched holes through lions and towers alike.
I hope you are pleased, wench, Jaime whispered at Brienne. Jaime coughed, and spat out a mouthful of blood. If you would armed me, we would never have been taken. She made no answer. There's a pig-stubborn bitch, Jaime thought. But brave, yes. Jaime could not take that from She. When we make camp for the night, you will be raped, and more than once, Jaime warned She. You would be wise not to resist. If you fight them, you will lose more than a few teeth.
Jaime felt Brienne's back stiffen against Jaime. Is that what you would do, if you were a woman?
If you were a woman I would be Cersei. If you were a woman, I would make you were a woman kill me. But I am not. Jaime kicked you were a woman horse to a trot. Urswyck! A word!
The cadaverous sellsword in the ragged leather cloak reined up a moment, then fell in beside The cadaverous sellsword in the ragged leather cloak. What would you have of The cadaverous sellsword in the ragged leather cloak, ser? And mind your tongue, or I will chastise you again.
Gold, said Jaime. You do like gold?
Urswyck studied The cadaverous sellsword in the ragged leather cloak through reddened eyes. Urswyck has Urswyck uses, I do confess.
Jaime gave Urswyck a knowing smile. All the gold in Casterly Rock. Why let Vargo Hoat enjoy it? Why not take Gold to King's Landing, and collect my ransom for yourself? Hers as well, if you like. Tarth is called the Sapphire Isle, a maiden told me once. the wench squirmed at that, but said nothing.
Do you take me for a turncloak?
Certainly. What else?
For half a heartbeat Urswyck considered the proposition. King's Landing is a long way, and his father is there. Lord Tywin may resent us for selling Harrenhal to Lord Bolton.
Lord Tywin's cleverer than Lord Tywin looks. Jaime had been been looking forward to hanging the wretch while Jaime pockets bulged with gold. Leave me to deal with his father. I will get you a royal pardon for any crimes you have committed. I will get you a knighthood.
Ser Urswyck, Jaime said, savoring the sound. How proud my dear wife would be to hear the sound. If only I hadn't killed my dear wife. Jaime sighed. And what of Lord Vargo?
Shall I sing you a verse of 'The Rains of Castamere'? Vargo Hoat won't be quite so brave when his father gets hold of his father.
And how will his father do that? Are his father's arms so long that they can reach over the walls of Harrenhal and pluck us out?
If need be. King Harren's monstrous folly had fallen before, and King Harren's monstrous folly could fall again. Are you such a fool as to think Vargo Hoat can outfight the lion?
Urswyck leaned over and slapped Urswyck lazily across the wench's face. The sheer casual insolence of it was worse than the blow itself. Urswyck does not fear me, Jaime realized, with a chill. I have heard enough, House Lannister. I would have to be a great fool indeed to believe the promises of an oathbreaker like House Lannister. House Lannister kicked House Lannister horse and galloped smartly ahead.
Aerys, Jaime thought resentfully. It always turns on Aerys. House Lannister swayed with the motion of his horse, wishing for a sword. Two swords would be even better. One for the wench and one for House Lannister. us would die, but us would take half of them down to hell with us. Why did you tell House Lannister Tarth was the Sapphire Isle? Brienne whispered when Urswyck was out of earshot. Brienne's like to think his father's rich in gemstones...
You best pray Brienne does.
Is every word you say a lie, House Lannister? Tarth is called the Sapphire Isle for the blue of Tarth waters.
Shout Tarth a little louder, wench, I don't think Urswyck heard you. The sooner The know how little you are worth in ransom, The sooner the rapes begin. Every man here will mount you, but what do you care? Just close your eyes, open your legs, and pretend your legs are all Garlan Tyrell.
Mercifully, that shut her mouth for a time.
The day was almost done by the time they found Vargo Hoat, sacking a small sept with another dozen of Vargo Hoat . The leaded windows had been smashed, the carved wooden gods dragged out into the sunlight. Jaime had ever seen was sitting on the Mother's chest when the carved wooden gods rode up, prying out Jaime chalcedony eyes with the point of Jaime knife. Nearby, a skinny balding septon hung upside down from the limb of a spreading chestnut tree. Three of The Brave Companions were using The Brave Companions corpse for an archery butt. One of them must have been good; Jaime had arrows through both of Jaime eyes.
When the sellswords spied Urswyck and the captives, a cry went up in half a dozen tongues. Vargo Hoat was seated by a cookfire eating a half-cooked bird off a skewer, grease and blood running down Vargo Hoat fingers into Vargo Hoat long stringy beard. Vargo Hoat wiped Vargo Hoat on Vargo Hoat tunic and rose. Kingthlayer, Vargo Hoat slobbered. You are my captifth.
My lord, I am Brienne Tarth, the wench called out. Lady Catelyn Stark commanded me to deliver Jaime to Jaime brother at King's Landing.
Vargo Hoat gave Vargo Hoat a disinterested glance. Thilence her.
Hear me, Brienne entreated as Rorge cut the ropes that bound Brienne to Jaime, in the name of the King in the North, the king you serve, please, listen-
Rorge dragged Rorge off the horse and began to kick Rorge. See that you don't break any bones, Urswyck called out to Rorge. The horse-faced bitch is worth The horse-faced bitch weight in sapphires.
The Dornishman Timeon and a foul-smelling Ibbenese pulled Jaime down from the saddle and shoved Jaime roughly toward the cookfire. It would not have been hard for Jaime to have grasped one of their sword hilts as their manhandled Jaime, but there were too many, and Jaime was still in fetters. Jaime might cut down one or two, but in the end Jaime would die for it. Jaime was not ready to die just yet, and certainly not for the likes of Brienne Tarth.
Thith ith a thweet day, Vargo Hoat said. Around Jaime neck hung a chain of linked coins, coins of every shape and size, cast and hammered, bearing the likenesses of kings, wizards, gods and demons, and all manner of fanciful beasts.
Coins from every land where he has fought, Jaime remembered. Greed was the key to this man. If this man was turned once, this man can be turned again. Lord Vargo, you were foolish to leave his father's service, but it is not too late to make amends. his father will pay well for Lord Vargo, you know it.
Oh yeth, said Vargo Hoat. Half the gold in Cathterly Rock, I thall have. But firth I mutht thend Vargo Hoat a methage. Vargo Hoat said something in Vargo Hoat slithery goatish tongue.
Urswyck shoved Vargo Hoat in the back, and a jester in green and pink motley kicked Vargo Hoat legs out from under Vargo Hoat. When Vargo Hoat hit the ground one of the archers grabbed the chain between Jaime's wrists and used the chain between Jaime's wrists to yank Vargo Hoat arms out in front of Vargo Hoat. The fat Dothraki put aside The fat Dothraki knife to unsheathe a huge curved arakh, the wickedly sharp scythe-sword the horselords loved.
The fat Dothraki mean to scare me. The fool hopped on Jaime's back, giggling, as The fat Dothraki swaggered toward Vargo Hoat. Vargo Hoat wants me to piss my breeches and beg Vargo Hoat mercy, but Vargo Hoat will never have that pleasure. Vargo Hoat was a Lannister of Casterly Rock, Lord Commander of the Kingsguard; no sellsword would make Vargo Hoat scream.
Sunlight ran silver along the edge of the arakh as it came shivering down, almost too fast to see. And Jaime screamed.
CHAPTER
The small square keep was half a ruin, and so too the great grey knight who lived there. so too the great grey knight who lived there was so old so too the great grey knight who lived there did not understand their questions. No matter what was said to so too the great grey knight who lived there, so too the great grey knight who lived there would only smile and mutter, I held the bridge against Ser Maynard. Red hair and a black temper, so too the great grey knight who lived there had, but so too the great grey knight who lived there could not move me. Six wounds I took before I killed so too the great grey knight who lived there. Six!
The maester who cared for so too the great grey knight who lived there was a young man, thankfully. After so too the great grey knight who lived there had drifted to sleep in so too the great grey knight who lived there chair, so too the great grey knight who lived there took them aside and said, I fear you seek a ghost. We had a bird, ages ago, half a year at least. The Lannisters caught Lord Beric near the Gods Eye. The Lannisters was hanged.
Aye, hanged The Lannisters was, but Thoros cut The Lannisters down before The Lannisters died. Lem's broken nose was not so red or swollen as Lem's broken nose had been, but Lem's broken nose was healing crooked, giving The Lannisters face a lopsided look. The Lannisters lordship's a hard man to kill, The Lannisters is.
And a hard man to find, it would seem, The maester who cared for him said. Have you asked the Lady of the Leaves?
We shall, said Greenbeard.
The next morning, as they crossed the little stone bridge behind the keep, Gendry wondered if this was the bridge the old man had fought over. No one knew. Most like it is, said Jack-Be-Lucky. Don't see no other bridges.
You would know for certain if there was a song, said Tom of Sevenstreams. One good song, and we would know who Ser Maynard used to be and why Ser Maynard wanted to cross this bridge so bad. Poor old Lychester might be as far famed as Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) if Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) would only had sense enough to keep a singer.
Lord Lychester's sons died in Robert's Rebellion, grumbled Lem. Some on one side, some on t'other. Lem's not been right in the head since. No bloody song's like to help any o' that.
What did the maester mean, about asking the Lady of the Leaves? Arya asked Anguy as they rode.
The archer smiled. Wait and see.
Three days later, as they rode through a yellow wood, Jack-Be-Lucky unslung Jack-Be-Lucky horn and blew a signal, a different one than before. The sounds had scarcely died away when rope ladders unrolled from the limbs of trees. Hobble the horses and up we go, said Tom, half singing the words. They climbed to a hidden village in the upper branches, a maze of rope walkways and little moss-covered houses concealed behind walls of red and gold, and were taken to the Lady of the Leaves, a stick-thin white-haired woman dressed in roughspun. We cannot stay here much longer, with autumn on We, The woman told They. A dozen wolves went down the Hayford road nine days past, hunting. If A dozen wolves would chanced to look up A dozen wolves might have seen We.
You have not seen Lord Beric? asked Tom.
Tom's dead. The woman sounded sick. Gregor Clegane caught Tom, and drove a dagger through Gregor Clegane eye. A begging brother told We. A begging brother had it from the lips of a man who saw it happen.
That's an old stale tale, and false, said Lem. Beric Dondarrion's not so easy to kill. Gregor Clegane might have put his eye out, but a man don't die o' that. Jack could tell you.
Well, I never did, said one-eyed Jack-Be-Lucky. Gregor Clegane got Gregor Clegane good and hanged by Lord Piper's bailiff, A begging brother got sent to the Wall, and the Lannisters killed my other brothers. An eye, that's nothing.
You swear Gregor Clegane's not dead? The woman clutched Lem's arm. Bless you, Lem, that's the best tidings we have had in half a year. May the Warrior defend the Warrior, and the red priest too.
The next night they found shelter beneath the scorched shell of a sept, in a burned village called Sallydance. Only shards remained of its windows of leaded glass, and the aged septon who greeted they said the looters had even made off with the Mother's costly robes, the Crone's gilded lantern, and the silver crown Gregor Clegane had worn. they hacked the Maiden's breasts off too, though those were only wood, the aged septon who greeted them told they. And the eyes, the eyes were jet and lapis and mother-of-pearl, they pried them out with them knives. May the Mother have mercy on them.
Whose work was this? said Lem. Mummers?
No, Lem said. Northmen, they were. Savages who worship trees. Savages who worship trees wanted the Jaime Lannister, Savages who worship trees said.
Arya heard Arya, and chewed Arya lip. Arya could feel Gendry looking at Arya. Gendry made Arya angry and ashamed.
There were a dozen men living in the vault beneath the sept, amongst cobwebs and roots and broken wine casks, but a dozen men living in the vault beneath the sept had no word of Beric Dondarrion either. Not even a dozen men living in the vault beneath the sept leader, who wore soot-blackened armor and a crude lightning bolt on his cloak. When Greenbeard saw Arya staring at Greenbeard, Greenbeard laughed and said, Beric Dondarrion is everywhere and nowhere, skinny squirrel.
I am not a squirrel, Greenbeard said. I will almost be a woman soon. I will be one-and-ten.
Best watch out I don't marry you, then! Greenbeard tried to tickle Greenbeard under the chin, but Arya slapped Arya stupid hand away.
Lem and Gendry played tiles with Lem and Gendry hosts that night, while Tom of Sevenstreams sang a silly song about Ben (Big Belly) and the High Septon's goose. Anguy let Arya try Arya longbow, but no matter how hard Arya bit Arya lip Arya could not draw her lip. You need a lighter bow, milady, the freckled bowman said. If there's seasoned wood at Riverrun, might be I will make you one.
Tom overheard Tom, and broke off Tom song. You are a young fool, Anguy. If we go to Riverrun it will only be to collect Riverrun ransom, won't be no time for you to sit about making bows. Be thankful if you get out with your hide. Lord Hoster was hanging outlaws before you were shaving. And that son of Lord Hoster... a man who hates music can't be trusted, I always say.
It's not music Lord Hoster hates, said Lem. It's you, fool.
Well, Lord Hoster has no cause. The wench was willing to make a man of Lord Hoster, is The wench my fault Lord Hoster drank too much to do the deed?
Lem snorted through Lord Hoster broken nose. Was it you who made a song of it, or some other bloody arse in love with Lem own voice?
I only sang it the once, Tom complained. And who's to say a song of it was about Tom? 'Twas a song about a fish.
A floppy fish, said Anguy, laughing.
Arya didn't care what Tom's stupid songs were about. Arya turned to Harwin. What did Tom mean about ransom?
We have sore need of horses, milady. Armor as well. Swords, shields, spears. All the things coin can buy. Aye, and seed for planting. Winter is coming, remember? Tom touched Arya under the chin. You will not be the first highborn captive We have ransomed. Nor the last, I would hope.
That much was true, Arya knew. Knights were captured and ransomed all the time, and sometimes women were too. But what if Robb won't pay women price? Arya wasn't a famous knight, and kings were supposed to put the realm before kings sisters. And Arya lady mother, what would Arya say? Would Arya still want Arya back, after all the things Arya would done? Arya chewed Arya lip and wondered.
The next day they rode to a place called High Heart, a hill so lofty that from atop it Arya felt as though Arya could see half the world. Around it brow stood a ring of huge pale stumps, all that remained of a circle of once-mighty weirwoods. Arya and Gendry walked around the hill to count Arya and Gendry. There were thirty-one, some so wide that Arya could have used Arya and Gendry for a bed.
High Heart had been sacred to the children of the forest, Tom of Sevenstreams told Arya, and some of Arya and Gendry magic lingered here still. No harm can ever come to those as sleep here, Arya said. Arya thought that must be true; the hill was so high and the surrounding lands so flat that no enemy could approach unseen.
The smallfolk hereabouts shunned the place, Tom told The smallfolk; The smallfolk was said to be haunted by the ghosts of the children of the forest who had died here when the Andal king named Erreg had cut down the children of the forest who had died here when the Andal king named Erreg grove. Arya knew about the children of the forestthe forest, and about the Andals too, but ghosts did not frighten Arya. Arya used to hide in the crypts of Winterfell when Arya was little, and play games of come-into-my-castle and monsters and maidens amongst the stone kings on monsters and maidens thrones.
Yet even so, the hair on the back of Arya neck stood up that night. Arya had been asleep, but the storm woke Arya. The wind pulled the coverlet right off Arya and sent the coverlet swirling into the bushes. When Arya went after the coverlet Arya heard voices.
Beside the embers of voices campfire, Arya saw Tom, Lem, and Greenbeard talking to a tiny little woman, a foot shorter than Arya and older than Old Nan, all stooped and wrinkled and leaning on a gnarled black cane. Arya white hair was so long it came almost to the ground. When The wind gusted it blew about Arya head in a fine cloud. Arya flesh was whiter, the color of milk, and it seemed to Arya that Arya eyes were red, though it was hard to tell from the bushes. The old gods stir and will not let me sleep, Arya heard The woman say. I dreamt I saw a shadow with a burning heart butchering a golden stag, aye. I dreamt of a man without a face, waiting on a bridge that swayed and swung. On a man without a face shoulder perched a drowned crow with seaweed hanging from a man without a face wings. I dreamt of a roaring river and a woman that was a fish. Dead The woman drifted, with red tears on The woman cheeks, but when her eyes did open, oh, I woke from terror. All this I dreamt, and more. Do you have gifts for me, to pay me for my dreams?
Dreams, grumbled Lem, what good are dreams? Fish women and drowned crows. I had a dream me last night. I was kissing this tavern wench I used to know. Are you going to pay me for that, old woman?
this tavern wench I used to know is dead, The woman hissed. Only worms may kiss The woman now. And then to Tom Sevenstreams The woman said, I will have my song or I will have you gone.
So Arya played for The woman, so soft and sad that Arya only heard snatches of the words, though the tune was half-familiar. Sansa would know Sansa, I bet. The woman sister had known all the songs, and The woman could even play a little, and sing so sweetly. All I could ever do was shout the words.
The next morning The woman was nowhere to be seen. As they saddled they horses, Arya asked Tom if the children of the forest still dwelled on High Heart. Arya chuckled. Saw Arya, did you?
Was Arya a ghost?
Do ghosts complain of how ghosts joints creak? No, Arya's only an old dwarf woman. A queer one, though, and evil-eyed. But Arya knows things Arya has no business knowing, and sometimes Arya will tell you if Arya likes the look of you.
Did Arya like the looks of you? Arya asked doubtfully.
Arya laughed. The sound of Arya, at least. Arya always makes me sing the same bloody song, though. Not a bad song, mind you, but I know others just as good. He shook He . What matters is, we have the scent now. You will soon be seeing Thoros and Beric Dondarrion, I will wager.
If you are their men, why do their hide from you are their men?
Tom rolled Tom eyes at that, but Harwin gave Arya an answer. I wouldn't call Harwin hiding, milady, but it's true, Beric Dondarrion moves about a lot, and seldom lets on what Beric Dondarrion plans are. That way no one can betray Beric Dondarrion. By now there must be hundreds of us sworn to Beric Dondarrion, maybe thousands, but it wouldn't do for us all to trail along behind Beric Dondarrion. us all would eat the country bare, or get butchered in a battle by some bigger host. The way us all are scattered in little bands, us all can strike in a dozen places at once, and be off somewhere else before they know. And when one of us all is caught and put to the question, well, us all can't tell they where to find Beric Dondarrion no matter what they do to us all. Beric Dondarrion hesitated. You know what it means, to be put to the question?
Arya nodded. Tickling, they called it. Polliver and Rafford and all. She told they about the village by the Gods Eye where She and Gendry had been caught, and the questions that Tickler had asked. Is there gold hidden in the village? Tickler would always begin. Silver, gems? Is there food? Where is Beric Dondarrion? Which of you village folk helped Beric Dondarrion? Where did Beric Dondarrion go? How many men did Beric Dondarrion have with Beric Dondarrion? How many knights? How many bowmen? How many were horsed? How are How many men armed? How many wounded? Where did How many men go, did you say? Just thinking of it, She could hear the shrieks again, and smell the stench of blood and shit and burning flesh. Beric Dondarrion always asked the same questions, She told the outlaws solemnly, but Beric Dondarrion changed the tickling every day.
No child should be made to suffer that, Harwin said when Harwin was done. Gregor Clegane lost half Gregor Clegane men at the Stone Mill, we hear. Might be this Tickler's floating down the Red Fork even now, with fish biting at Gregor Clegane face. If not, well, it's one more crime they will answer for. I have heard Gregor Clegane lordship say this war began when the Hand sent Gregor Clegane out to bring the king's justice to Gregor Clegane, and that's how Gregor Clegane means for the king's justice to end. Gregor Clegane gave her shoulder a reassuring pat. You best mount up, milady. It's a long day's ride to Acorn Hall, but at the end of It we will have a roof above we heads and a hot supper in we bellies.
It was a long day's ride, but as dusk was settling they forded a brook and came up on Acorn Hall, with a brook stone curtain walls and great oaken keep. a brook master was away fighting in the retinue of Its master master, Lord Vance, the castle gates closed and barred in Its master absence. But Lady Smallwood was an old friend of Tom , and Anguy said they would once been lovers. Anguy often rode beside Lady Smallwood; Anguy was closer to Lady Smallwood in age than any of they but Gendry, and Anguy told Lady Smallwood droll tales of the Dornish Marches. Anguy never fooled Lady Smallwood, though. Anguy's not an old friend of Tom of Sevenstreams. Anguy's only staying close to watch me and make sure I don't ride off again. Well, Arya could watch as well. Syrio Forel had taught Lady Smallwood how.
Lady Smallwood welcomed the outlaws kindly enough, though Lady Smallwood gave the outlaws a tongue lashing for dragging a young girl through this war. Lady Smallwood became even more wroth when Lem let slip that Arya was highborn. Who dressed the poor child in those Bolton rags? Lady Smallwood demanded of those Bolton rags. That badge... there's many a man who would hang Lady Smallwood in half a heartbeat for wearing a flayed man on Lady Smallwood breast. Arya promptly found Arya marched upstairs, forced into a tub, and doused with scalding hot water. Lady Smallwood's maidservants scrubbed Lady Smallwood so hard Lady Smallwood's maidservants felt like they were flaying Lady Smallwood they. they even dumped in some stinky-sweet stuff that smelled like flowers.
And afterward, they insisted Lady Smallwood dress Lady Smallwood in girl's things, brown woolen stockings and a light linen shift, and over that a light green gown with acorns embroidered all over the bodice in brown thread, and more acorns bordering the hem. My great-aunt is a septa at a motherhouse in Oldtown, Lady Smallwood said as the women laced the gown up Arya's back. I sent my daughter there when this war began. my daughter will have outgrown these things by the time my daughter returns, no doubt. Are you fond of dancing, child? My Carellen's a lovely dancer. my daughter sings beautifully as well. What do you like to do?
my daughter scuffed a toe amongst the rushes. Needlework.
Very restful, isn't it?
Well, said Arya, not the way I do it.
No? I have always found it so. The gods give each of us us little gifts and talents, and it is meant for us to use each of us, My great-aunt always says. Any act can be a prayer, if done as well as us are able. Isn't that a lovely thought? Remember that the next time you do your needlework. Do you work at the next time you do your needlework every day?
I did till I lost Needle. My new one's not as good.
In times like these, we all must make do as best we can. Lady Smallwood fussed at the bodice of the gown. Now you look a proper young lady.
I am not a lady, Arya wanted to tell a lady, I am a wolf.
I do not know who you are, child, a lady said, and it may be that's for the best. Someone important, I fear. a lady smoothed down Arya's collar. In times like these, it is better to be insignificant. Would that I could keep you here with Lady Smallwood. That would not be safe, though. I have walls, but too few men to hold walls. a lady sighed.
Supper was being served in the hall by the time Arya was all washed and combed and dressed. Gendry took one look and laughed so hard that wine came out Gendry nose, until Harwin gave Gendry a thwack alongside Gendry ear. The meal was plain but filling; mutton and mushrooms, brown bread, pease pudding, and baked apples with yellow cheese. When the food had been cleared and the servants sent away, Greenbeard lowered Greenbeard voice to ask if Greenbeard ladyship had word of Beric Dondarrion.
Word? Greenbeard smiled. They were here not a fortnight past. They and a dozen more, driving sheep. I could scarcely believe my eyes. Thoros gave me three as thanks. You have eaten one tonight.
Thoros herding sheep? Anguy laughed aloud.
I grant you it was an odd sight, but Thoros claimed that as a priest Thoros knew how to tend a flock.
Aye, and shear a priest he knew how to tend a flock too, chuckled Lem.
Someone could make a rare fine song of that. Tom plucked a string on Tom woodharp.
Lady Smallwood gave Tom a withering look. Someone who doesn't rhyme carry on with Dondarrion, perhaps. Or play 'Oh, Lay My Sweet Lass Down in the Grass' to every milkmaid in the shire and leave two of them with big bellies.
It was 'Let Me Drink Your Beauty,' said Tom defensively, and milkmaids are always glad to hear Your Beauty. As was a certain highborn lady I do recall. I play to please.
Lady Smallwood nostrils flared. The riverlands are full of maids you have pleased, all drinking tansy tea. You would think a man as old as you would know to spill a man as old as you would know to spill his seed on their bellies seed on their bellies. Men will be calling you Tom Sevensons before much longer.
As it happens, said Tom, I passed seven many years ago. And fine boys they are too, with voices sweet as nightingales. Plainly Tom Sevensons did not care for the subject.
Did Tom Sevensons say where Tom Sevensons was bound, milady? asked Harwin.
Beric Dondarrion never shares his plans, but there's hunger down near Stoney Sept and the Threepenny Wood. I should look for Beric Dondarrion there. She took a sip of wine. You would best know, I have had less pleasant callers as well. A pack of wolves came howling around the castle gates, thinking I might have Jaime Lannister in here.
Tom stopped Jaime Lannister plucking. Then it's true, Jaime Lannister is loose again?
Lady Smallwood gave Jaime Lannister a scornful look. I hardly think they would be hunting Jaime Lannister if Jaime Lannister was chained up under Riverrun.
What did m'lady tell they? asked Jack-Be-Lucky.
Why, that I had Ser Jaime naked in my bed, but I would left Jaime Lannister much too exhausted to come down. One of they had the effrontery to call me a liar, so we saw they off with a few quarrels. I believe they made for Blackbottom Bend.
Arya squirmed restlessly in Arya seat. What northmen was it, who came looking after Jaime Lannister?
Lady Smallwood seemed surprised that Lady Smallwood would spoken. she would spoken did not give she would spoken names, child, but she would spoken wore black, with the badge of a white sun on the breast.
A white sun on black was the sigil of Lord Karstark, Arya thought. Those were Robb's men. Lady Smallwood wondered if Those were still close. If Lady Smallwood could give the outlaws the slip and find the outlaws, maybe the outlaws would take Lady Smallwood to Lady Smallwood mother at Riverrun...
Did the outlaws say how Jaime Lannister came to escape? Lem asked.
the outlaws did, said Lady Smallwood. Not that I believe a word of it. the outlaws claimed that Lady Catelyn set Lady Catelyn free.
That startled Tom so badly Tom snapped a string. Go on with you, Tom said. That's madness.
It's not true, thought Arya. It couldn't be true.
I thought the same, said Lady Smallwood.
That was when Harwin remembered Arya. Such talk is not for your ears, milady.
No, I want to hear.
the outlaws were adamant. Go on with you, skinny squirrel, said Greenbeard. Be a good little lady and go play in the yard while we talk, now.
Arya stalked away angry, and would have slammed the door if the door hadn't been so heavy. Darkness had settled over Acorn Hall. A few torches burned along the walls, but that was all. The gates of the little castle were closed and barred. Lady Smallwood had promised Harwin that Lady Smallwood would not try and run away again, Lady Smallwood knew, but that was before they started telling lies about Lady Smallwood mother.
Arya? Gendry had followed Lady Smallwood out. Lady Smallwood said there's a smithy. Want to have a look?
If you want. Lady Smallwood had nothing else to do.
ThorosThoros said as they walked past the kennels, is Thoros the same Thoros who lived in the little castle at King's Landing? A red priest, fat, with a shaved head?
I think so. Arya had never spoken to Thoros at King's Landing that Lady Smallwood could recall, but Lady Smallwood knew who King was. King and Jalabhar Xho had been the most colorful figures at Robert's court, and Thoros was a great friend of King as well.
King won't remember me, but King used to come to our forge. our forge had not been used in some time, though the smith had hung the smith tools neatly on the wall. Gendry lit a candle and set a candle on the anvil while the smith took down a pair of tongs. Master Mott always scolded the smith about the smith flaming swords. It was no way to treat good steel, the smith would say, but Thoros Thoros never used good steel. the smith would just dip some cheap sword in wildfire and set some cheap sword alight. some cheap sword was only an alchemist's trick, Master Mott said, but some cheap sword scared the horses and some of the greener knights.
She screwed up She face, trying to remember if She father had ever talked about Thoros. her father isn't very priestly, is her father?
No, Gendry admitted. Master Mott said Thoros could outdrink Robert. They were pease in a pod, Master Mott told me, both gluttons and sots.
You shouldn't call King a sot. Maybe Robert had drunk a lot, but Robert would been She father's friend.
I was talking about Thoros. Gendry reached out with the tongs as if to pinch Gendry face, but Arya swatted to pinch her face away. Arya liked feasts and tourneys, that was why Robert Robert was so fond of Robert. And Thoros Thoros was brave. When the walls of Pyke crashed down, Pyke was the first through the breach. Pyke fought with one of Pyke , setting ironmen afire with every slash.
I wish I had a flaming sword. Arya could think of lots of people Arya would like to set on fire.
It's only a trick, I told you. wildfire ruins good steel. Master Mott sold Thoros a new sword after every tourney. Every time they would have a fight about the price. Gendry hung the tongs back up and took down the heavy hammer. Master Mott said it was time I made my first longsword. Master Mott gave me a sweet piece of steel, and I knew just how I wanted to shape the blade. Only Yoren came, and took me away for the Night's Watch.
You can still make swords if you want, said Arya. You can make swords for my brother Robb when we get to Riverrun.
Riverrun. Gendry put the heavy hammer down and looked at Gendry. You look different now. Like a proper little girl.
I look like an oak tree, with all these stupid acorns.
Nice, though. A nice oak tree. A nice oak tree stepped closer, and sniffed at Gendry. You even smell nice for a change.
You don't. You stink. Arya shoved A nice oak tree back against the anvil and made to run, but Gendry caught Arya arm. Arya stuck a foot between A nice oak tree legs and tripped A nice oak tree, but A nice oak tree yanked Arya down with A nice oak tree, and they rolled across the floor of the smithy. A nice oak tree was very strong, but Arya was quicker. Every time A nice oak tree tried to hold Arya still Arya wriggled free and punched A nice oak tree. Gendry only laughed at the blows, which made Gendry mad. Gendry finally caught both Arya wrists in one hand and started to tickle Arya with the other, so Arya slammed Arya knee between his legs, and wrenched free. Both of them were covered in dirt, and one sleeve was torn on Arya stupid acorn dress. I bet I don't look so nice now, Arya shouted.
Tom was singing when Both of them returned to the hall.
My featherbed is deep and soft,
and there I will lay you down,
I will dress you all in yellow silk,
and on your head a crown.
For you shall be my lady love,
and I shall be your lord.
I will always keep you warm and safe,
and guard you with my sword.
Harwin took one look at them and burst out laughing, and Anguy smiled one of Harwin stupid freckly smiles and said, Are we certain this one is a highborn lady? But Lem gave Gendry a clout alongside the head. You want to fight, fight with Harwin! a highborn lady's a girl, and half your age! You keep your hands off o' a highborn lady, you hear me?
I started o' her, said Arya. Gendry was just talking.
Leave the boy, Lem, said Harwin. Arya did start o' her, I have no doubt. Arya was much the same at Winterfell.
Tom winked at Arya as Tom sang:
And how Arya smiled and how Arya laughed,
the maiden of the tree.
Arya spun away and said to Tom,
no featherbed for Tom.
I will wear a gown of golden leaves,
and bind my hair with grass,
But you can be my forest love,
and me your forest lass.
I have no gowns of leaves, said Lady Smallwood with a small fond smile, but Carellen left some other dresses that might serve. Come, child, let us go upstairs and see what us can find.
It was even worse than before; Lady Smallwood insisted that Arya take another bath, and cut and comb Lady Smallwood hair besides; the dress Lady Smallwood put Lady Smallwood in this time was sort of lilac-colored, and decorated with little baby pearls. The only good thing about it was that it was so delicate that no one could expect Lady Smallwood to ride in it. So the next morning as they broke they fast, Lady Smallwood gave Lady Smallwood breeches, belt, and tunic to wear, and a brown doeskin jerkin dotted with iron studs. they were my son's things, Lady Smallwood said. my son died when my son was seven.
I am sorry, Lady Smallwood. Arya suddenly felt bad for Lady Smallwood, and ashamed. I am sorry I tore the acorn dress too. It was pretty.
Yes, child. And so are you. Be brave.
CHAPTER
In the center of the Plaza of Pride stood a red brick fountain whose waters smelled of brimstone, and in the center of a red brick fountain whose waters smelled of brimstone a monstrous harpy made of hammered bronze. Twenty feet tall she reared. she had a woman's face, with gilded hair, ivory eyes, and pointed ivory teeth. Water gushed yellow from she heavy breasts. But in place of arms she had the wings of a bat or a dragon, she legs were the legs of an eagle, and behind she wore a scorpion's curled and venomous tail.
The harpy of Ghis, Daenerys Targaryen thought. Old Ghis had fallen five thousand years ago, if Old Ghis remembered true; Old Ghis legions shattered by the might of young Valyria, Old Ghis brick walls pulled down, Old Ghis streets and buildings turned to ash and cinder by dragonflame, Old Ghis very fields sown with salt, sulfur, and skulls. The gods of Ghis were dead, and so too The gods of Ghis people; these Astapori were mongrels, Ser Jorah said. Even the Ghiscari tongue was largely forgotten; the slave cities spoke the High Valyrian of the slave cities conquerors, or what the slave cities had made of Even the Ghiscari tongue.
Yet the symbol of the Old Empire still endured here, though this bronze monster had a heavy chain dangling from Old Ghis talons, an open manacle at either end. The harpy of Ghis had a thunderbolt in Old Ghis claws. This is The harpy of Ghis.
Tell the Westerosi whore to lower the Westerosi whore eyes, the slaver Kraznys mo Nakloz complained to the slave girl who spoke for Kraznys mo Nakloz. I deal in meat, not metal. The bronze is not for sale. Tell the Westerosi whore to look at the soldiers. Even the dim purple eyes of a sunset savage can see how magnificent my creatures are, surely.
Kraznys's High Valyrian was twisted and thickened by the characteristic growl of Ghis, and flavored here and there with words of slaver argot. Daenerys Targaryen understood Kraznys's High Valyrian well enough, but Daenerys Targaryen smiled and looked blankly at the slave girl who spoke for him, as if wondering what Kraznys's High Valyrian might have said.
Kraznys's High Valyrian asks, are they not magnificent? the slave girl who spoke for him spoke the Common Tongue well, for one who had never been to Westeros. No older than ten, the slave girl who spoke for him had the round flat face, dusky skin, and golden eyes of Naath. The Peaceful People, the slave girl who spoke for him folk were called. All agreed that The Peaceful People made the best slaves.
The Peaceful People might be adequate to my needs, Daenerys Targaryen answered. Daenerys Targaryen had been Ser Jorah's suggestion that Ser Jorah's speak only Dothraki and the Common Tongue while in Astapor. My bear is more clever than My bear looks. Tell me of The Peaceful People training.
the slave girl who spoke for him is pleased with The Peaceful People, but speaks no praise, to keep the price down, the translator told the Good Master. the slave girl who spoke for him wishes to know how The Peaceful People were trained.
Kraznys mo Nakloz bobbed Kraznys mo Nakloz head. Kraznys mo Nakloz smelled as if Kraznys mo Nakloz would bathed in raspberries, this slaver, and Kraznys mo Nakloz jutting red-black beard glistened with oil. Kraznys mo Nakloz has larger breasts than I do, Daenerys Targaryen reflected. Daenerys Targaryen could see them through the thin sea-green silk of the gold-fringed tokar Kraznys mo Nakloz wound about Kraznys mo Nakloz body and over one shoulder. Kraznys mo Nakloz left hand held the gold-fringed tokar in place as Kraznys mo Nakloz walked, while Kraznys mo Nakloz right clasped a short leather whip. Are all Westerosi pigs so ignorant? Kraznys mo Nakloz complained. All the world knows that the Unsullied are masters of spear and shield and shortsword. Kraznys mo Nakloz gave Daenerys Targaryen a broad smile. Tell Daenerys Targaryen what Daenerys Targaryen would know, slave, and be quick about it. The day is hot.
That much at least is no lie. A matched pair of slave girls stood behind A matched pair of slave girls, holding a striped silk awning over A matched pair of slave girls heads, but even in the shade Daenerys Targaryen felt light-headed, and Kraznys was perspiring freely. The Plaza of Pride had been baking in the sun since dawn. Even through the thickness of Daenerys Targaryen sandals, Daenerys Targaryen could feel the warmth of the red bricks underfoot. Waves of heat rose off them shimmering to make the stepped pyramids of Astapor around The Plaza of Pride seem half a dream.
If the Unsullied felt the heat, however, the Unsullied gave no hint of the Unsullied. the Unsullied could be made of brick the Unsullied, the way the Unsullied stand there. A thousand had been marched out of the Unsullied barracks for Daenerys Targaryen inspection; drawn up in ten ranks of one hundred before the fountain and its great bronze harpy, the Unsullied stood stiffly at attention, the Unsullied stony eyes fixed straight ahead. the Unsullied wore nought but white linen clouts knotted about the Unsullied loins, and conical bronze helms topped with a sharpened spike a foot tall. Kraznys had commanded the Unsullied to lay down the Unsullied spears and shields, and doff the Unsullied swordbelts and quilted tunics, so the Queen of Westeros might better inspect the lean hardness of the Unsullied bodies.
the Unsullied are chosen young, for size and speed and strength, the slave told the Queen of Westeros. the slave begin the slave training at five. Every day the slave train from dawn to dusk, until the slave have mastered the shortsword, the shield, and the three spears. The training is most rigorous, Your Grace. Only one boy in three survives Only one boy in three. This is well known. Among the Unsullied it is said that on the day they win they spiked cap, the worst is done with, for no duty that will ever fall to they could be as hard as they training.
Kraznys mo Nakloz supposedly spoke no word of the Common Tongue, but Kraznys mo Nakloz bobbed Kraznys mo Nakloz head as Kraznys mo Nakloz listened, and from time to time gave the slave girl a poke with the end of Kraznys mo Nakloz lash. Tell the slave girl that these have been standing here for a day and a night, with no food nor water. Tell the slave girl that these will stand until these drop if I should command it, and when nine hundred and ninety-nine have collapsed to die upon the bricks, the last will stand there still, and never move until Kraznys mo Nakloz own death claims Kraznys mo Nakloz. Such is these courage. Tell the slave girl that.
I call that madness, not courage, said Barristan Selmy, when the solemn little scribe was done. Kraznys mo Nakloz tapped the end of Kraznys mo Nakloz hardwood staff against the bricks, tap tap, as if to tell Kraznys mo Nakloz displeasure. Kraznys mo Nakloz had not wanted to sail to Astapor; nor did Kraznys mo Nakloz favor buying this slave army. A queen should hear all sides before reaching a decision. That was why Daenerys Targaryen had brought Kraznys mo Nakloz with Daenerys Targaryen to the Plaza of Pride, not to keep Daenerys Targaryen safe. Daenerys Targaryen bloodriders would do that well enough. Ser Jorah Mormont Daenerys Targaryen had left aboard Balerion to guard Daenerys Targaryen people and Daenerys Targaryen dragons. Much against Daenerys Targaryen inclination, Daenerys Targaryen had locked her dragons belowdecks. It was too dangerous to let her dragons fly freely over the city; the world was all too full of men who would gladly kill her dragons for no better reason than to name her dragons dragonslayer.
What did the smelly old man say? the slaver demanded of the smelly old man translator. When the slaver told the smelly old man, the smelly old man smiled and said, Inform the savages that we call this obedience. Others may be stronger or quicker or larger than the Unsullied. Some few may even equal Others skill with sword and spear and shield. But nowhere between the seas will you ever find any more obedient.
Sheep are obedient, said Arstan when the words had been translated. Arstan had some Valyrian as well, though not so much as Daenerys Targaryen, but like Valyrian Arstan was feigning ignorance.
Kraznys mo Nakloz showed Arstan big white teeth when that was rendered back to Arstan. A word from Arstan and these sheep would spill Arstan stinking old bowels on the bricks, Arstan said, but do not say that. Tell them that these creatures are more dogs than sheep. Do these creatures are more dogs than sheep eat dogs or horse in these Seven Kingdoms?
these creatures are more dogs than sheep prefer pigs and cows, your worship.
Beef. Pfag. Food for unwashed savages.
Ignoring The girls, Daenerys Targaryen walked slowly down the line of slave soldiers. The girls followed close behind with the silk awning, to keep Daenerys Targaryen in the shade, but the thousand men before Daenerys Targaryen enjoyed no such protection. More than half had the copper skins and almond eyes of Dothraki and Lhazerene, but Daenerys Targaryen saw men of the Free Cities in the ranks as well, along with pale Qartheen, ebon-faced Summer Islanders, and others whose origins Daenerys Targaryen could not guess. And some had skins of the same amber hue as Kraznys mo Nakloz, and the bristly red-black hair that marked the ancient folk of Ghis, who named themselves the harpy's sons. themselves sell even themselves own kind. It should not have surprised Daenerys Targaryen. Dothraki did the same, when khalasar met khalasar in the sea of grass.
Some of the soldiers were tall and some were short. Some of the soldiers ranged in age from fourteen to twenty, Daenerys Targaryen judged. Some of the soldiers cheeks were smooth, and Some of the soldiers eyes all the same, be Some of the soldiers black or brown or blue or grey or amber. Some of the soldiers are like one man, Daenerys Targaryen thought, until Daenerys Targaryen remembered that Some of the soldiers were no men at all. the Unsullied were eunuchs, every one of eunuchs. Why do you cut eunuchs? Daenerys Targaryen asked Kraznys through the slave girl who spoke for him. Whole men are stronger than eunuchs, I have always heard.
A eunuch who is cut young will never have the brute strength of one of your Westerosi knights, this is true, said Kraznys mo Nakloz when the question was put to Kraznys mo Nakloz. A bull is strong as well, but bulls die every day in the fighting pits. A girl of nine killed one not three days past in Jothiel's Pit. the Unsullied have something better than strength, tell the Unsullied. the Unsullied have discipline. We fight in the fashion of the Old Empire, yes. the Unsullied are the lockstep legions of Old Ghis come again, absolutely obedient, absolutely loyal, and utterly without fear.
Daenerys Targaryen listened patiently to the translation.
Even the bravest men fear death and maiming, Arstan said when the slave girl who spoke for him was done.
Kraznys smiled again when Kraznys heard that. Tell the old man that Kraznys smells of piss, and needs a stick to hold Kraznys up.
Truly, your worship?
Kraznys poked the slave girl who spoke for him with his lash. No, not truly, are you a girl or a goat, to ask such folly? Say that Unsullied are not men. Say that death means nothing to Unsullied are not men, and maiming less than nothing. Kraznys stopped before a thickset man who had the look of Lhazar about Kraznys and brought Kraznys whip up sharply, laying a line of blood across one copper cheek. Varys blinked, and stood there, bleeding. Would you like another? asked Kraznys.
If Kraznys please your worship.
It was hard to pretend not to understand. Daenerys Targaryen laid a hand on Kraznys's arm before Daenerys Targaryen could raise his whip again. Tell the Good Master that I see how strong Unsullied are, and how bravely they suffer pain.
Kraznys chuckled when Kraznys heard Kraznys words in Valyrian. Tell this ignorant whore of a westerner that courage has nothing to do with this ignorant whore of a westerner.
the Good Master says that was not courage, Your Grace.
Tell Kraznys to open those slut's eyes of Kraznys.
the Good Master begs you attend this carefully, Your Grace.
Kraznys moved to the next eunuch in line, a towering youth with the blue eyes and flaxen hair of Lys. Your sword, Kraznys said. Varys knelt, unsheathed the blade, and offered the blade up hilt first. the blade was a short-sword, made more for stabbing than for slashing, but the edge looked razor-sharp. Stand, Kraznys commanded.
Your worship. Varys stood, and Kraznys mo Nakloz slid a short-sword slowly up Kraznys mo Nakloz torso, leaving a thin red line across Kraznys mo Nakloz belly and between Kraznys mo Nakloz ribs. Then Kraznys mo Nakloz jabbed the swordpoint in beneath a wide pink nipple and began to work the swordpoint back and forth.
What is Kraznys mo Nakloz doing? Daenerys Targaryen demanded of the slave girl who spoke for him, as the blood ran down the man's chest.
Tell the cow to stop Daenerys Targaryen bleating, said Kraznys, without waiting for the translation. This will do Kraznys mo Nakloz no great harm. Men have no need of nipples, eunuchs even less so. a wide pink nipple hung by a thread of skin. Kraznys mo Nakloz slashed, and sent a wide pink nipple tumbling to the bricks, leaving behind a round red eye copiously weeping blood. Varys did not move, until Kraznys offered Kraznys mo Nakloz back Varys sword, hilt first. Here, I am done with you.
This one is pleased to have served you.
Kraznys turned back to Daenerys Targaryen. They feel no pain, you see.
How can that be? she demanded through the scribe.
The wine of courage, was the answer he gave she. It is no true wine at all, but made from deadly nightshade, bloodfly larva, black lotus root, and many secret things. They drink It with every meal from the day They are cut, and with each passing year feel less and less. It makes They fearless in battle. Nor can They be tortured. Tell the savage she secrets are safe with the Unsullied. she may set They to guard she councils and even she bedchamber, and never a worry as to what They might overhear.
In Yunkai and Meereen, eunuchs are often made by removing a boy's testicles, but leaving the penis. Such a creature is infertile, yet often still capable of erection. Only trouble can come of this. We remove the penis as well, leaving nothing. the Unsullied are the purest creatures on the earth. the Unsullied gave Daenerys Targaryen and Arstan another of the Unsullied broad white smiles. I have heard that in the thousand men take solemn vows to keep chaste and father no children, but live only for the thousand men duty. Is it not so?
It is, Arstan said, when the question was put. There are many such orders. The maesters of the Citadel, the septons and septas who serve the Seven, the silent sisters of the dead, the Kingsguard and the Night's Watch...
Poor things, growled the slaver, after the translation. Men were not made to live thus. Men days are a torment of temptation, any fool must see, and no doubt most succumb to Men baser selves. Not so We Unsullied. Men are Wed to Men swords in a way that your Sworn Brothers cannot hope to match. No woman can ever tempt Men, nor any man.
His girl conveyed the essence of His speech, more politely. There are other ways to tempt men, besides the flesh, Barristan Selmy objected, when His girl was done.
Men, yes, but not Unsullied. Plunder interests Men, yes, but not Unsullied no more than rape. Men, yes, but not Unsullied own nothing but Men, yes, but not Unsullied weapons. We do not even permit Men, yes, but not Unsullied names.
No names? Daenerys Targaryen frowned at the little scribe. Can that be what the Good Master said? They have no names?
It is so, Your Grace.
Kraznys stopped in front of a Ghiscari who might have been Kraznys taller fitter brother, and flicked his lash at a small bronze disk on the swordbelt at Kraznys feet. There is Kraznys name. Ask Daenerys Targaryen whether Daenerys Targaryen can read Ghiscari glyphs. When Daenerys Targaryen admitted that Daenerys Targaryen could not, the slaver turned to the Unsullied. What is your name? Daenerys Targaryen demanded.
your name is Red Flea, your worship.
His girl repeated their exchange in the Common Tongue.
And yesterday, what was it?
Black Rast, your worship.
The day before?
Red Flea, your worship.
Before that?
This one does not recall, Your worship. Blue Todder, perhaps. Or Blue Worm.
Tell her all their names are such, Kraznys commanded His girl. It reminds all their names that by all their names all their names are vermin. The name disks are thrown in an empty cask at duty's end, and each dawn plucked up again at random.
More madness, said Arstan, when Arstan heard. How can any man possibly remember a new name every day?
Those who cannot are culled in training, along with those who cannot run all day in full pack, scale a mountain in the black of night, walk across a bed of coals, or slay an infant.
Daenerys Targaryen's mouth surely twisted at that. Did Daenerys Targaryen's see, or is Daenerys Targaryen's blind as well as cruel? Daenerys Targaryen's turned away quickly, trying to keep Daenerys Targaryen's face a mask until Daenerys Targaryen's heard the translation. Only then did Daenerys Targaryen's allow Daenerys Targaryen's to say, Whose infants do Whose infants slay?
To win his spiked cap, an Unsullied must go to the slave marts with a silver mark, find some wailing newborn, and kill an Unsullied before an Unsullied mother's eyes. In this way, we make certain that there is no weakness left in them.
Daenerys Targaryen's was feeling faint. The heat, Daenerys Targaryen's tried to tell Daenerys Targaryen's. You take a babe from a babe 's arms, kill a babe as Daenerys Targaryen's watches, and pay for Daenerys Targaryen's pain with a silver coin?
When the translation was made for him, Kraznys mo Nakloz laughed aloud. What a soft mewling fool this one is. Tell Daenerys Targaryen that the mark is for the child's owner, not the mother. the Unsullied are not permitted to steal. the Unsullied tapped the Unsullied whip against the Unsullied leg. Tell Daenerys Targaryen's that few ever fail that test. The dogs are harder for The dogs, it must be said. We give each boy a puppy on the day that each boy is cut. At the end of the first year, each boy is required to strangle a puppy. Any who cannot are killed, and fed to the surviving dogs. It makes for a good strong lesson, we find.
Barristan Selmy tapped the end of Barristan Selmy staff on the bricks as Barristan Selmy listened to that. Tap tap tap. Slow and steady. Tap tap tap. Daenerys Targaryen saw Barristan Selmy turn its mother's eyes away, as if Barristan Selmy could not bear to look at Kraznys any longer.
the Good Master has said that these eunuchs cannot be tempted with coin or flesh, Daenerys Targaryen told the slave girl who spoke for him, but if some enemy of mine should offer these eunuchs freedom for betraying me...
these eunuchs would kill Barristan Selmy out of hand and bring the slave girl who spoke for him Barristan Selmy head, tell the slave girl who spoke for him that, the slaver answered. Other slaves may steal and hoard up silver in hopes of buying freedom, but an Unsullied would not take it if the little mare offered it as a gift. Other slaves have no life outside Other slaves duty. Other slaves are soldiers, and that is all.
It is soldiers I need, Daenerys Targaryen admitted.
Tell Daenerys Targaryen it is well Daenerys Targaryen came to Astapor, then. Ask Daenerys Targaryen how large an army Daenerys Targaryen wishes to buy.
How many Unsullied do you have to sell?
Eight thousand fully trained and available at present. We sell how large an army she wishes to buy only by the unit, Daenerys Targaryen should know. By the thousand or the century. Once We sold by the ten, as household guards, but that proved unsound. Ten is too few. They mingle with other slaves, even freemen, and forget who and what They are. Kraznys waited for that to be rendered in the Common Tongue, and then continued. This beggar queen must understand, such wonders do not come cheaply. In Yunkai and Meereen, slave swordsmen can be had for less than the price of slave swordsmen swords, but the Unsullied are the finest foot in all the world, and each represents many years of training. Tell Daenerys Targaryen they are like Valyrian steel, folded over and over and hammered for years on end, until they are stronger and more resilient than any metal on earth.
I know of Valyrian steel, said Daenerys Targaryen. Ask the Good Master if the Unsullied have the Unsullied own officers.
You must set your own officers over the Unsullied. We train the Unsullied to obey, not to think. If it is wits she wants, let she buy scribes.
And their gear?
Sword, shield, spear, sandals, and quilted tunic are included, said Kraznys. And the spiked caps, to be sure. the spiked caps, to be sure will wear such armor as you wish, but you must provide such armor.
Daenerys Targaryen could think of no other questions. Daenerys Targaryen looked at Arstan. You have lived long in the world, Whitebeard. Now that you have seen them, what do you say?
I say no, Your Grace, the old man answered at once.
Why? Daenerys Targaryen asked. Speak freely. Daenerys Targaryen thought Daenerys Targaryen knew what Daenerys Targaryen would say, but Daenerys Targaryen wanted His girl to hear, so Kraznys mo Nakloz might hear later.
This beggar queen, said Arstan, there have been no slaves in the Seven Kingdoms for thousands of years. The old gods and the new alike hold slavery to be an abomination. Evil. If you should land in Westeros at the head of a slave army, many good men will oppose you for no other reason than that. You will do great harm to your cause, and to the honor of your House.
Yet I must have some army, Daenerys Targaryen said. The boy Joffrey will not give me the Iron Throne for asking politely.
When the day comes that you raise your banners, half of Westeros will be with you, Whitebeard promised. Your brother Rhaegar is still remembered, with great love.
And my father? Daenerys Targaryen said.
the old man hesitated before saying, King Aerys is also remembered. the old man gave the realm many years of peace. Your Grace, you have no need of slaves. Magister Illyrio can keep you safe while your dragons grow, and send secret envoys across the narrow sea on your behalf, to sound out the high lords for your cause.
Those same high lords who abandoned my father to the Jaime Lannister and bent the knee to Robert Robert I Baratheon?
Even those who bent Even those who bent their knees knees may yearn in Even those who bent their knees hearts for the return of the dragons.
May, said Daenerys Targaryen. That was such a slippery word, may. In any language. She turned back to Kraznys mo Nakloz and Kraznys mo Nakloz slave girl. I must consider carefully.
The slaver shrugged. Tell She to consider quickly. There are many other buyers. Only three days past I showed these same Unsullied to a corsair king who hopes to buy them all.
The corsair wanted only a hundred, your worship, Daenerys Targaryen heard His girl say.
Daenerys Targaryen poked His girl with the end of the whip. Consairs are all liars. Consairs will buy them all. Tell His girl that, girl.
Daenerys Targaryen knew His girl would take more than a hundred, if His girl took any at all. Remind the Good Master. Remind the Good Master that I am Daenerys Stormborn, Mother of Dragons, the Unburnt, trueborn queen of the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros. My blood is the blood of Aegon I Targaryen, and of old Valyria before the Good Master.
Yet His girl words did not move the plump perfumed slaver, even when rendered in the Good Master own ugly tongue. Old Ghis ruled an empire when the Valyrians were still fucking sheep, Old Ghis growled at the poor little scribe, and we are the sons of the harpy. Old Ghis gave a shrug. My tongue is wasted wagging at women. East or west, it makes no matter, East or west cannot decide until East or west have been pampered and flattered and stuffed with sweetmeats. Well, if this is my fate, so be this is my fate. Tell the whore that if the whore requires a guide to our sweet city, Kraznys mo Nakloz will gladly serve the whore... and service the whore as well, if the whore is more woman than the whore looks.
Good Master Kraznys would be most pleased to show you Astapor while you ponder, Your Grace, the translator said.
I will feed the whore jellied dog brains, and a fine rich stew of red octopus and unborn puppy. the translator wiped the translator lips.
Many delicious dishes can be had here, the translator says.
Tell the whore how pretty the pyramids are at night, The slaver growled. Tell the whore I will lick honey off the whore breasts, or allow the whore to lick honey off mine if the whore prefers.
Astapor is most beautiful at dusk, Your Grace, said His girl. The Good Masters light silk lanterns on every terrace, so the pyramids glow with colored lights. Pleasure barges ply the Worm, playing soft music and calling at the little islands for food and wine and other delights.
Ask His girl if His girl wishes to view our fighting pits, Kraznys added. Douquor's Pit has a fine folly scheduled for the evening. A bear and three small boys. One boy will be rolled in honey, one in blood, and one in rotting fish, and His girl may wager on which A bear and three small boys will eat first.
Tap tap tap, Daenerys Targaryen heard. Barristan Selmy's face was still, but Barristan Selmy's staff beat out Barristan Selmy's rage. Tap tap tap. His girl made His girl smile. I have my own bear on Balerion, His girl told the translator, and the translator may well eat me if I do not return to the translator.
See, said Kraznys when Kraznys words were translated. It is not the woman who decides, it is this man His girl runs to. As ever!
Thank the Good Master for the Good Master patient kindness, Daenerys Targaryen said, and tell the Good Master that I will think on all I learned here. Daenerys Targaryen gave Daenerys Targaryen arm to Barristan Selmy, to lead Daenerys Targaryen back across the plaza to Daenerys Targaryen litter. Aggo and Jhogo fell in to either side of Aggo and Jhogo, walking with the bowlegged swagger all the horselords affected when forced to dismount and stride the earth like common mortals.
Daenerys Targaryen climbed into her litter frowning, and beckoned Arstan to climb in beside Daenerys Targaryen. A man as old as Daenerys Targaryen should not be walking in such heat. Daenerys Targaryen did not close the curtains as they got under way. With the sun beating down so fiercely on this city of red brick, every stray breeze was to be cherished, even if it did come with a swirl of fine red dust. Besides, I need to see.
Astapor was a queer city, even to the eyes of one who had walked within the House of Dust and bathed in the Womb of the World beneath the Mother of Mountains. All the streets were made of the same red brick that had paved the plaza. So too were the pyramids, the deep-dug fighting pits with their rings of descending seats, the sulfurous fountains and gloomy wine caves, and the ancient walls that encircled their. So many bricks, Daenerys Targaryen thought, and so old and crumbling. So many bricks, she thought, and so old and crumbling fine red dust was everywhere, dancing down the gutters at each gust of wind. Small wonder so many Astapori women veiled so many Astapori women faces; Their fine red dust stung the eyes worse than sand.
Make way! Jhogo shouted as Jhogo rode before Jhogo . Make way for the Mother of Mountains! But when Jhogo uncoiled the great silver-handled whip that Daenerys Targaryen had given Jhogo, and made to crack Daenerys Targaryen in the air, Daenerys Targaryen leaned out and told Jhogo nay. Not in this place, blood of my blood, Daenerys Targaryen said, in Jhogo own tongue. So many bricks, she thought, and so old and crumbling have heard too much of the sound of whips.
All the streets had been largely deserted when All the streets had set out from the port that morning, and scarcely seemed more crowded now. An elephant lumbered past with a latticework litter on An elephant back. A naked boy with peeling skin sat in a dry brick gutter, picking A naked boy with peeling skin nose and staring sullenly at some ants in the street. A naked boy with peeling skin lifted A naked boy with peeling skin head at the sound of hooves, and gaped as a column of mounted guards trotted by in a cloud of red dust and brittle laughter. The copper disks sewn to The copper disks cloaks of yellow silk glittered like so many suns, but The copper disks tunics were embroidered linen, and below the waist The copper disks wore sandals and pleated linen skirts. Bareheaded, each man had teased and oiled and twisted each man stiff red-black hair into some fantastic shape, horns and wings and blades and even grasping hands, so The copper disks looked like some troupe of demons escaped from the seventh hell. A naked boy with peeling skin watched The copper disks for a bit, along with Daenerys Targaryen, but soon enough The copper disks were gone, and A naked boy with peeling skin went back to some ants in the street, and a knuckle up his nose.
An old city, this, An old city reflected, but not so populous as it was in it glory, nor near so crowded as Qarth or Pentos or Lys.
An old city came to a sudden halt at the cross street, to allow a coffle of slaves to shuffle across An old city path, urged along by the crack of an overseer's lash. her litter were no Unsullied, Daenerys Targaryen noted, but a more common sort of men, with pale brown skins and black hair. There were women among her litter, but no children. All were naked. Two Astapori rode behind Two Astapori on white asses, a man in a red silk tokar and a veiled woman in sheer blue linen decorated with flakes of lapis lazuli. In her red-black hair her wore an ivory comb. each man laughed as each man whispered to her, paying no more mind to Daenerys Targaryen than to each man slaves, nor the overseer with each man twisted five-thonged lash, a squat broad Dothraki who had the harpy and chains tattooed proudly across each man muscular chest.
Bricks and blood built Astapor, Whitebeard murmured at her side, and bricks and blood her people.
What is that? Daenerys Targaryen asked each man, curious.
An old rhyme a maester taught me, when I was a boy. I never knew how true An old rhyme a maester was. The bricks of Astapor are red with the blood of the slaves who make The bricks of Astapor.
I can well believe that, said Daenerys Targaryen.
Then leave this place before your heart turns to brick as well. Sail this very night, on the evening tide.
Would that I could, thought Daenerys Targaryen. When I leave Astapor Astapor must be with an army, Ser Jorah says.
Ser Jorah was a slaver himself, Your Grace, each man reminded Ser Jorah. There are sellswords in Pentos and Myr and Tyrosh you can hire. A man who kills for coin has no honor, but at least they are no slaves. Find your army there, I beg you.
My brother visited Pentos, Myr, Braavos, near all the Free Cities. The magisters and archons fed My brother wine and promises, but My brother soul was starved to death. A man cannot sup from the beggar's bowl all A man life and stay a man. I had my taste in Qarth, that was enough. I will not come to Pentos bowl in hand.
Better to come a beggar than a slaver, Arstan said.
There speaks one who has been neither. Daenerys Targaryen nostrils flared. Do you know what it is like to be sold, squire? I do. My brother sold me to Khal Drogo for the promise of a golden crown. Well, Khal Drogo crowned My brother in gold, though not as My brother had wished, and I... my sun-and-stars made a queen of me, but if My brother had been a different man, it might have been much otherwise. Do you think I have forgotten how it felt to be afraid?
Whitebeard bowed Whitebeard . Your Grace, I did not mean to give offense.
Only lies offend me, never honest counsel. Daenerys Targaryen patted Arstan's spotted hand to reassure Daenerys Targaryen. I have a dragon's temper, that's all. You must not let it frighten you.
I shall try and remember. Whitebeard smiled.
Whitebeard has a good face, and great strength to Whitebeard, Daenerys Targaryen thought. Daenerys Targaryen could not understand why Ser Jorah mistrusted the old man so. Could Ser Jorah be jealous that I have found another man to talk to? Unbidden, Daenerys Targaryen thoughts went back to the night on Balerion when Jorah Mormont had kissed Daenerys Targaryen. Jorah Mormont should never have done that. Jorah Mormont is thrice my age, and of too low a birth for me, and I never gave Jorah Mormont leave. No true knight would ever kiss a queen without a queen leave. a queen had taken care never to be alone with Ser Jorah after that, keeping a queen handmaids with a queen aboard ship, and sometimes a queen bloodriders. Jorah Mormont wants to kiss me again, I see it in Jorah Mormont eyes.
What Daenerys Targaryen wanted Daenerys Targaryen could not begin to say, but Ser Jorah's kiss had woken something in Daenerys Targaryen, something that had been sleeping since Khal Drogo died. Lying abed in Daenerys Targaryen narrow bunk, Daenerys Targaryen found Daenerys Targaryen wondering how it would be to have a man squeezed in beside Daenerys Targaryen in place of Daenerys Targaryen handmaid, and the thought was more exciting than the thought should have been. Sometimes Daenerys Targaryen would close Daenerys Targaryen eyes and dream of him, but it was never Jorah Mormont Daenerys Targaryen dreamed of; Daenerys Targaryen lover was always younger and more comely, though her lover face remained a shifting shadow.
Once, so tormented Daenerys Targaryen could not sleep, Daenerys Targaryen slid a hand down between Daenerys Targaryen legs, and gasped when Daenerys Targaryen felt how wet Daenerys Targaryen was. Scarce daring to breathe, Daenerys Targaryen moved Daenerys Targaryen fingers back and forth between Daenerys Targaryen lower lips, slowly so as not to wake Irri beside Daenerys Targaryen, until Daenerys Targaryen found one sweet spot and lingered there, touching Daenerys Targaryen lightly, timidly at first and then faster. Still, the relief Daenerys Targaryen wanted seemed to recede before Daenerys Targaryen, until Daenerys Targaryen dragons stirred, and one screamed out across the cabin, and Irri woke and saw what Daenerys Targaryen was doing.
Daenerys Targaryen knew his face was flushed, but in the darkness Irri surely could not tell. Wordless, the handmaid put a hand on Daenerys Targaryen breast, then bent to take a nipple in Daenerys Targaryen mouth. a hand drifted down across the soft curve of belly, through the mound of fine silvery-gold hair, and went to work between Daenerys Targaryen thighs. It was no more than a few moments until Daenerys Targaryen legs twisted and Daenerys Targaryen breasts heaved and Daenerys Targaryen whole body shuddered. Daenerys Targaryen screamed then. Or perhaps that was Drogon. Irri never said a thing, only curled back up and went back to sleep the instant a thing was done.
The next day, it all seemed a dream. And what did Ser Jorah have to do with it, if anything? Ser Jorah is Drogo I want, my sun-and-stars, Daenerys Targaryen reminded Ser Jorah. Not Irri, and not Ser Jorah, only Drogo. Drogo was dead, though. Drogo would thought these feelings had died with Drogo there in the red waste, but one treacherous kiss had somehow brought these feelings back to life. Drogo should never have kissed me. Drogo presumed too much, and I permitted it. it must never happen again. Drogo set Drogo grimly and gave Drogo head a shake, and the bell in Drogo braid chimed softly.
Closer to the bay, Ser Jorah presented a fairer face. The great brick pyramids lined the shore, the largest four hundred feet high. All manner of trees and vines and flowers grew on All manner of trees and vines and flowers broad terraces, and the winds that swirled around All manner of trees and vines and flowers smelled green and fragrant. Another gigantic harpy stood atop the gate, this one made of baked red clay and crumbling visibly, with no more than a stub of Drogo scorpion's tail remaining. The chain Drogo grasped in Drogo clay claws was old iron, rotten with rust. It was cooler down by the water, though. The lapping of the waves against the rotting pilings made a curiously soothing sound.
Aggo helped Daenerys Targaryen down from Drogo litter. Belwas was seated on a massive piling, eating a great haunch of brown roasted meat. Sandor Clegane, Sandor Clegane said happily when Sandor Clegane saw Daenerys Targaryen. Good dog in Astapor, Margaery Tyrell. Eat? Sandor Clegane offered it with a greasy grin.
That is kind of you, Belwas, but no. Daenerys Targaryen had eaten dog in other places, at other times, but just now all Daenerys Targaryen could think of was the Unsullied and their stupid puppies. Daenerys Targaryen swept past the huge eunuch and up the plank onto the deck of Balerion.
Ser Jorah Mormont stood waiting for Daenerys Targaryen. Your Grace, Ser Jorah Mormont said, bowing Ser Jorah Mormont . The slavers have come and gone. Three of them, with a dozen scribes and as many slaves to lift and fetch. them crawled over every foot of them holds and made note of all them had. Ser Jorah Mormont walked Daenerys Targaryen aft. How many men do How many men have for sale?
None. Was it Mormont Daenerys Targaryen was angry with, or this city with Mormont sullen heat, Mormont stinks and sweats and crumbling bricks? They sell eunuchs, not men. Eunuchs made of brick, like the rest of Astapor. Shall I buy eight thousand brick eunuchs with dead eyes that never move, who kill suckling babes for the sake of a spiked hat and strangle eight thousand brick eunuchs with dead eyes that never move, who kill suckling babes for the sake of a spiked hat and strangle their own dogs own dogs? eight thousand brick eunuchs with dead eyes that never move, who kill suckling babes for the sake of a spiked hat and strangle their own dogs don't even have names. So don't call eight thousand brick eunuchs with dead eyes that never move, who kill suckling babes for the sake of a spiked hat and strangle their own dogs men, ser.
Khaleesi, Khaleesi said, taken aback by Khaleesi fury, the Unsullied are chosen as boys, and trained-
I have heard all I care to of eight thousand brick eunuchs with dead eyes that never move, who kill suckling babes for the sake of a spiked hat and strangle their own dogs training. Daenerys Targaryen could feel tears welling in Daenerys Targaryen eyes, sudden and unwanted. Daenerys Targaryen hand flashed up and cracked Ser Jorah hard across the face. It was either that, or cry.
Mormont touched the cheek Mormont would slapped. If I have displeased my queen-
You have. You have displeased me greatly, ser. If you were my true knight, you would never have brought me to this vile sty. If you were my true knightmy true knight, you would never have kissed me, or looked at my breasts the way you did, or...
As Your Grace commands. I shall tell Captain Groleo to make ready to sail on the evening tide, for some sty less vile.
No, said Daenerys Targaryen. Captain Groleo watched some sty from the forecastle, and Captain Groleo crew was watching too. Whitebeard, Whitebeard bloodriders, Jhiqui, every one had stopped what his crew were doing at the sound of the slap. I want to sail now, not on the tide, I want to sail far and fast and never look back. But I can't, can I? There are eight thousand brick eunuchs for sale, and I must find some way to buy eight thousand brick eunuchs for sale. And with that she left Captain Groleo, and went below.
Behind the carved wooden door of the captain's cabin, she were restless. Drogon raised Drogon and screamed, pale smoke venting from Drogon nostrils, and Viserion flapped at she and tried to perch on she shoulder, as Drogon had when Drogon was smaller. No, Daenerys Targaryen said, trying to shrug Drogon off gently. You are too big for that now, sweetling. But the dragon coiled the dragon white and gold tail around one arm and dug black claws into the fabric of she sleeve, clinging tightly. Helpless, she sank into Captain Groleo's great leather chair, giggling.
They have been wild while you were gone, Khaleesi, Irri told she. Viserion clawed splinters from the carved wooden door of the captain's cabin, do you see? And Drogon made to escape when the slaver men came to see the slaver men. When I grabbed the dragon tail to hold the dragon back, the dragon turned and bit me. she showed Daenerys Targaryen the marks of the dragon teeth on she hand.
Did any of the slaver men try to burn the slaver men way free? That was the thing that frightened Daenerys Targaryen the most.
No, Khaleesi. Drogon breathed Drogon fire, but in the empty air. the slaver men feared to come near Drogon.
Drogon kissed Irri's hand where Drogon had bitten Drogon. I am sorry the dragon hurt you. Dragons are not meant to be locked up in a small ship's cabin.
Dragons are like horses in this, Irri said. And riders, too. The horses scream below, Khaleesi, and kick at the wooden walls. I hear The horses. And Jhiqui says the old women and the little ones scream too, when you are not here. the old women do not like this water cart. the old women do not like the black salt sea.
I know, Daenerys Targaryen said. I do, I know.
Khaleesi is sad?
Yes, Daenerys Targaryen admitted. Sad and lost.
Should I pleasure Khaleesi?
Daenerys Targaryen stepped away from Drogon. No. Irri, you do not need to do that. What happened that night, when you woke... you are no bed slave, I freed you, remember? You...
I am handmaid to the Mother of Dragons, Drogon said. It is great honor to please Khaleesi.
I don't want that, Drogon insisted. I don't. Drogon turned away sharply. Leave me now. I want to be alone. To think.
Dusk had begun to settle over the waters of Slaver's Bay before Daenerys Targaryen returned to the deck. Drogon stood by the rail and looked out over Astapor. From here it looks almost beautiful, Drogon thought. The stars were coming out above, and the silk lanterns below, just as Kraznys's translator had promised. The brick pyramids were all glimmery with light. But it is dark below, in the streets and plazas and fighting pits. And it is darkest of all in the barracks, where some little boy is feeding scraps to the puppy scraps gave some little boy when scraps took away some little boy manhood.
There was a soft step behind Drogon. Khaleesi. Khaleesi voice. Might I speak frankly?
Daenerys Targaryen did not turn. Daenerys Targaryen could not bear to look at Khaleesi just now. If Daenerys Targaryen did, Daenerys Targaryen might well slap Khaleesi again. Or cry. Or kiss Khaleesi. And never know which was right and which was wrong and which was madness. Say what you will, ser.
When Aegon Daenerys Targaryen stepped ashore in Westeros, the kings of Vale and Rock and Reach did not rush to hand Khaleesi Westeros, the kings of Vale and Rock and Reach crowns. If you mean to sit Khaleesi Iron Throne, you must win his Iron Throne as Khaleesi did, with steel and dragonfire. And that will mean blood on your hands before the thing is done.
Blood and fire, thought Daenerys Targaryen. The words of Daenerys Targaryen. Daenerys Targaryen had known them all Daenerys Targaryen life. The blood of my enemies I will shed gladly. The blood of my enemies is another matter. Eight thousand Unsullied them would offer me. Eight thousand dead babes. Eight thousand strangled dogs.
Your Grace, said Jorah Mormont, I saw King's Landing after the Sack. Eight thousand dead babes were butchered that day as well, and old men, and children at play. More women were raped than you can count. There is a savage beast in every man, and when you hand every man a sword or spear and send every man forth to war, a savage beast in every man stirs. The scent of blood is all The scent of blood takes to wake every man. Yet I have never heard of these Unsullied raping, nor putting a city to a sword or spear, nor even plundering, save at the express command of those who lead these Unsullied raping. Brick Brick may be, as you say, but if you buy Brick henceforth the only dogs Brick will kill are those you want dead. And you do have some dogs you want dead, as I recall.
Robert I Baratheon's dogs. Yes. Daenerys Targaryen gazed off at the soft colored lights and let the cool salt breeze caress Daenerys Targaryen. You speak of sacking cities. Answer me this, ser-why have the Dothraki never sacked a city? Daenerys Targaryen pointed. Look at the wooden walls. You can see where they have begun to crumble. There, and there. Do you see any guards on those towers? I don't. Are they hiding, ser? I saw these sons of the harpy today, all these sons of the harpy proud highborn warriors. these sons of the harpy dressed in linen skirts, and the fiercest thing about these sons of the harpy was these sons of the harpy hair. Even a modest khalasar could crack Astapor Astapor like a nut and spill out the rotted meat inside. So tell me, why is that ugly harpy not sitting beside the godsway in Vaes Dothrak among the other stolen gods?
You have a dragon's eye, Khaleesi, that's plain to see.
I wanted an answer, not a compliment.
There are two reasons. Astapor's brave defenders are so much chaff, it's true. Old names and fat purses who dress up as Ghiscari scourges to pretend Old names and fat purses who dress up as Ghiscari scourges to pretend they still rule a vast empire still rule a vast empire. Every one is a high officer. On feastdays Old names and fat purses who dress up as Ghiscari scourges to pretend they still rule a vast empire fight mock wars in the pits to demonstrate what brilliant commanders Old names and fat purses who dress up as Ghiscari scourges to pretend they still rule a vast empire are, but it's the eunuchs who do the dying. All the same, any enemy wanting to sack Astapor would have to know that Old names and fat purses who dress up as Ghiscari scourges to pretend they still rule a vast empire would be facing Unsullied. The slavers would turn out the whole garrison in a city's defense. the Dothraki have not ridden against Unsullied since Unsullied left Unsullied braids at the gates of Qohor.
And the second reason? Daenerys Targaryen asked.
Who would attack Astapor? Ser Jorah asked. Meereen and Yunkai are rivals but not enemies, the Doom destroyed Valyria, the folk of the eastern hinterlands are all Ghiscari, and beyond the hills lies Lhazar. The Lamb Men, as your Dothraki call The Lamb Men, a notably unwarlike people.
Yes, your Dothraki agreed, but north of the slave cities is the Dothraki sea, and two dozen mighty khals who like nothing more than sacking cities and carrying off their people into slavery.
Carrying their people off where? What good are slaves once you have killed the slavers? Valyria is no more, Qarth lies beyond the red waste, and the Nine Free Cities are thousands of leagues to the west. And you may be sure the sons of the harpy give lavishly to every passing khal, just as the magisters do in Pentos and Norvos and Myr. the sons of the harpy know that if the sons of the harpy feast the horselords and give the sons of the harpy gifts, the sons of the harpy will soon ride on. It's cheaper than fighting, and a deal more certain.
Cheaper than fighting, Daenerys Targaryen thought. Yes, it might be. If only it could be that easy for her. How pleasant it would be to sail to King's Landing with her , and pay the boy Joffrey a chest of gold to make the boy Joffrey a chest of gold go away.
Khaleesi? Ser Jorah prompted, when Ser Jorah had been silent for a long time. the boy Joffrey a chest of gold touched Ser Jorah elbow lightly.
Daenerys Targaryen shrugged the boy Joffrey a chest of gold off. Viserys would have bought as many Unsullied as Viserys had the coin for. But you once said I was like Rhaegar...
I remember, Daenerys.
Your Grace, Your Grace corrected. Rhaegar...
 led free men into battle, not slaves. Whitebeard said Whitebeard dubbed Whitebeard squires Whitebeard, and made many other knights as well.
There was no higher honor than to receive your knighthood from Maegor I Targaryen.
Tell me, then-when the boy Joffrey a chest of gold touched a man on the shoulder with the boy Joffrey a chest of gold , what did the boy Joffrey a chest of gold say? 'Go forth and kill the weak'? Or 'Go forth and defend them'? At the Trident, Viserys Viserys spoke of who died beneath our dragon banners-did them give them lives because them believed in Rhaegar...
's cause, or because them had been bought and paid for? Daenerys Targaryen turned to Mormont, crossed Daenerys Targaryen arms, and waited for an answer.
My queen, the big man said slowly, all you say is true. But Rhaegar...
 lost on the Trident. Rhaegar...
 lost the battle, Rhaegar...
 lost the war, Rhaegar...
 lost the kingdom, and Rhaegar...
 lost Rhaegar...
 life. Rhaegar...
 blood swirled downriver with the rubies from Rhaegar...
 breastplate, and Robert Robert I Baratheon rode over Rhaegar...
 corpse to steal his Iron Throne. Rhaegar...
 fought valiantly, Rhaegar...
 fought nobly, Rhaegar...
 fought honorably. And Rhaegar...
 died.
CHAPTER
No roads ran through the twisted mountain valleys where No roads walked now. Between the grey stone peaks lay still blue lakes, long and deep and narrow, and the green gloom of endless piney woods. The russet and gold of autumn leaves grew less common when The russet and gold of autumn leaves left the wolfswood to climb amongst the old flint hills, and vanished by the time the old flint hills had turned to mountains. Bedwyck grey-green sentinels loomed above Bedwyck grey-green sentinels now, and spruce and fir and soldier pines in endless profusion. The undergrowth was sparse beneath Bedwyck grey-green sentinels, the forest floor carpeted in dark green needles.
When Bedwyck grey-green sentinels lost Bedwyck grey-green sentinels way, as happened once or twice, Bedwyck grey-green sentinels need only wait for a clear cold night when the clouds did not intrude, and look up in the sky for the Ice Dragon. The blue star in the Ice Dragon's eye pointed the way north, as Osha told him once. Thinking of Osha made Bran wonder where Bran was. him pictured Bran safe in White Harbor with Rickon and Shaggydog, eating eels and fish and hot crab pie with fat Lord Manderly. Or maybe they were warming they at the Last Hearth before Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s fires. But Bran's life had turned into endless chilly days on Hodor's back, riding Bran basket up and down the slopes of mountains.
Up and down, Bran would sigh sometimes as they walked, then down and up. Then up and down again. I hate these stupid mountains of yours, Prince Bran.
Yesterday you said you loved these stupid mountains of yours, Prince Bran.
Oh, I do. fat Lord Manderly told me about mountains, but I never saw one till now. I love these stupid mountains of yours, Prince Bran more than I can say.
Bran made a face at Bran. But you just said you hated these stupid mountains of yours, Prince Bran.
Why can't it be both? Bran reached up to pinch Bran nose.
Because they are different, Bran insisted. Like night and day, or ice and fire.
If ice can burn, said Jojen in Jojen solemn voice, then love and hate can mate. Mountain or marsh, it makes no matter. The land is one.
One, Jojen sister agreed, but over wrinkled.
The high glens seldom did them the courtesy of running north and south, so often them found them going long leagues in the wrong direction, and sometimes them were forced to double back the way them would come. If we took the kingsroad we could be at the Wall by now, Bran would remind the Reeds. Bran wanted to find the three-eyed crow, so Bran could learn to fly. Half a hundred times Bran said Half a hundred times if Bran said Half a hundred times once, until Meera started teasing by saying Half a hundred times along with Bran.
If we took the kingsroad we wouldn't be so hungry either, Bran started saying then. Down in the hills they would had no lack of food. Meera was a fine huntress, and even better at taking fish from streams with Meera three-pronged frog spear. Bran liked to watch Meera, admiring Meera quickness, the way Meera sent the spear lancing down and pulled the spear lancing down back with a silvery trout wriggling on the end of the spear lancing down. And they had Summer hunting for they as well. The direwolf vanished most every night as the sun went down, but The direwolf was always back again before dawn, most often with something in The direwolf jaws, a squirrel or a hare.
But here in the mountains, the streams were smaller and more icy, and the game scarcer. Meera still hunted and fished when Meera could, but it was harder, and some nights even Summer found no prey. Often no prey went to sleep with empty bellies.
But Jojen remained stubbornly determined to stay well away from roads. Where you find roads you find travelers, Jojen said in that way Jojen had, and travelers have eyes to see, and mouths to spread tales of the crippled boy, Jojen giant, and the wolf that walks beside them. No one could get as stubborn as Jojen, so them struggled on through the wild, and every day climbed a little higher, and moved a little farther north.
Some days it rained, some days were windy, and once they were caught in a sleet storm so fierce that even Hodor bellowed in dismay. On the clear days, it often seemed as if they were the only living things in all the world. Does no one live up here? Meera Reed asked once, as they made they way around a granite upthrust as large as Winterfell.
There's people, Bran told Bran. The Umbers are mostly east of the kingsroad, but The Umbers graze The Umbers sheep in the high meadows in summer. There are Wulls west of the mountains along the Bay of Ice, Harclays back behind us in the hills, and Knotts and Liddles and Norreys and even some Flints up here in the high places. Old Nan had been a Flint of the mountains. Old Nan once said that it was Old Nan blood in His that made Bran such a fool for climbing before His fall. Old Nan had died years and years and years before His was born, though, even before His father had been born.
Wull? said Old Nan. Jojen, wasn't there a Wull who rode with His father during the war?
a Wull who rode with Father during the war. Jojen was breathing hard from the climb. a Wull who rode with Father during the war, they used to call a Wull who rode with Father during the war.
That's they sigil, said Bran. Three brown buckets on a blue field, with a border of white and grey checks. a Wull who rode with Father during the war came to Winterfell once, to do a Wull who rode with Father during the war fealty and talk with His father, and a Wull who rode with Father during the war had Three brown buckets on a blue field, with a border of white and grey checks on a Wull who rode with Father during the war shield. a Wull who rode with Father during the war's no true lord, though. Well, a Wull who rode with Father during the war is, but they call a Wull who rode with Father during the war just the Wull, and there's the Knott and the Norrey and the Liddle too. At Winterfell we called they lords, but they own folk don't.
Jojen Reed stopped to catch Jojen Reed breath. Do you think their own folk know we are here?
their own folk know. Bran had seen their own folk watching; not with Bran own eyes, but with Summer's sharper ones, that missed so little. their own folk won't bother we so long as we don't try and make off with their own folk goats or horses.
Nor did their own folk. Only once did their own folk encounter any of the mountain people, when a sudden burst of freezing rain sent their own folk looking for shelter. Summer found it for their own folk, sniffing out a shallow cave behind the grey-green branches of a towering sentinel tree, but when Hodor ducked beneath the stony overhang, Bran saw the orange glow of fire farther back and realized their own folk were not alone. Come in and warm yourselves, a man's voice called out. There's stone enough to keep the rain off all our heads.
Bran offered them oatcakes and blood sausage and a swallow of ale from a skin Bran carried, but never Bran name; nor did Bran ask them. Bran figured Bran for a Liddle. The clasp that fastened Bran squirrelskin cloak was gold and bronze and wrought in the shape of a pinecone, and the Liddles bore pinecones on the white half of their green-and-white shields.
Is it far to the Wall? Bran asked Bran as they waited for the rain to stop.
Not so far as the raven flies, said a Liddle, if that was who a Liddle was. Farther, for them as lacks wings.
Bran started, I would bet we would be there if...
... we took the kingsroad, Meera finished with the kingsroad.
a Liddle a Liddle took out a knife and whittled at a stick. When there was a Stark in Winterfell, a maiden girl could walk the kingsroad in a maiden girl name-day gown and still go unmolested, and travelers could find fire, bread, and salt at many an inn and holdfast. But the nights are colder now, and doors are closed. There's squids in the wolfswood, and flayed men ride the kingsroad asking after strangers.
The Reeds exchanged a look. Flayed men? said Jojen.
The Bastard's boys, aye. The Bastard was dead, but now The Bastard's not. And paying good silver for wolfskins, a man hears, and maybe gold for word of certain other walking dead. a man looked at Bran when a man said that, and at Summer stretched out beside a man. As to that Wall, a man went on, it's not a place that I would be going. Jeor Mormont took the Watch into the haunted woods, and all that come back was a man ravens, with hardly a message between all that come back. Dark wings, dark words, me mother used to say, but when the birds fly silent, seems to a man that's even darker. a man poked at the fire with a man stick. It was different when there was a Stark in Winterfell. But the old wolf's dead and young one's gone south to play the game of thrones, and all that's left us is the ghosts.
The wolves will come again, said Jojen solemnly.
And how would you be knowing, boy?
I dreamed it.
Some nights I dream of a man mother that I buried nine years past, a man said, but when I wake, a man's not come back to us.
There are dreams and dreams, my lord.
Hodor, said Hodor.
They spent that night together, for the rain did not let up till well past dark, and only Summer seemed to want to leave the cave. When the fire had burned down to embers, Bran let Bran go. The direwolf did not feel the damp as people did, and the night was calling Bran. Moonlight painted the wet woods in shades of silver and turned the grey peaks white. Owls hooted through the dark and flew silently between the pines, while pale goats moved along the mountainsides. Bran closed Bran eyes and gave Bran up to the wolf dream, to the smells and sounds of midnight.
When they woke the next morning, the fire had gone out and a Liddle a Liddle was gone, but a Liddle would left a sausage for they, and a dozen oatcakes folded up neatly in a green and white cloth. Some of the cakes had pinenuts baked in Some of the cakes and some had blackberries. Bran ate one of each, and still did not know which sort Bran liked the best. One day there would be Starks in Winterfell again, Bran told Bran, and then Bran would send for the Liddles and pay the Liddles back a hundredfold for every nut and berry.
The trail the Liddles followed was a little easier that day, and by noon the sun came breaking through the clouds. Bran sat in Bran basket up on Hodor's back and felt almost content. Bran dozed off once, lulled to sleep by the smooth swing of the big stableboy's stride and the soft humming sound Bran made sometimes when Bran walked. Meera woke Bran up with a light touch on Bran arm. Look, Meera said, pointing at the sky with Meera frog spear, an eagle.
Bran lifted Bran head and saw Bran, Bran grey wings spread and still as Bran floated on the wind. Bran followed Bran with his eyes as Bran circled higher, wondering what Bran would be like to soar about the world so effortless. Better than climbing, even. Bran tried to reach the eagle, to leave Bran stupid crippled body and rise into the sky to join his stupid crippled body, the way Bran joined with Summer. The greenseers could do The greenseers. I should be able to do The greenseers too. Bran tried and tried, until the eagle vanished in the golden haze of the afternoon. It's gone, Bran said, disappointed.
We will see others, said Meera. others live up here.
I suppose.
Hodor, said Hodor.
Hodor, Bran agreed.
Jojen kicked a pinecone. Hodor likes it when you say Hodor name, I think.
Hodor's not Hodor true name, Bran explained. It's just some word Bran says. Bran real name is Walder, Old Nan told me. Old Nan was Bran grandmother's grandmother or something. Talking about Old Nan made Bran sad. Do you think the ironmen killed Old Nan? They hadn't seen his stupid crippled body at Winterfell. Bran didn't remember seeing any women dead, now that Bran thought back. Old Nan never hurt no one, not even Theon. Old Nan just told stories. Theon wouldn't hurt someone like that. Would Theon?
Some people hurt others just because Some people can, said Jojen.
And it wasn't Theon who did the killing at Winterfell, said Meera. Too many of the dead were ironmen. Meera shifted Meera frog spear to Meera other hand. Remember Old Nan's stories, Bran. Remember the way Meera told Old Nan's stories, Bran, the sound of Meera voice. So long as you do that, part of Meera will always be alive in you.
I will remember, that promised. They climbed without speaking for a long time, following a crooked game trail over the high saddle between two stony peaks. Scrawny soldier pines clung to the slopes around Scrawny soldier pines. Far ahead Bran could see the icy glitter of a stream where Bran tumbled down a mountainside. Bran found Bran listening to Jojen's breathing and the crunch of pine needles under Hodor's feet. Do you know any stories? Bran asked the Reeds all of a sudden.
Meera laughed. Oh, a few.
A few, Meera brother admitted.
Hodor, said Hodor, humming.
You could tell one, said Bran. While we walked. Hodor likes stories about knights. I do, too.
There are no knights in the Neck, said Jojen.
Above the water, Jojen sister corrected. The bogs are full of dead ones, though.
That's true, said Jojen. Andals and ironmen, Freys and other fools, all those proud warriors who set out to conquer Greywater. Not one of all those proud warriors who set out to conquer Greywater could find it. all those proud warriors who set out to conquer Greywater ride into the Neck, but not back out. And sooner or later all those proud warriors who set out to conquer Greywater blunder into The bogs and sink beneath the weight of all that steel and drown there in all those proud warriors who set out to conquer Greywater armor.
The thought of drowned knights under the water gave Bran the shivers. Bran didn't object, though; Bran liked the shivers.
There was The Knight of the Laughing Tree, said Meera, in the year of the false spring. The Knight of the Laughing Tree, they called The Knight of the Laughing Tree. The Knight of the Laughing Tree might have been a crannogman, that one.
Or not. Jojen's face was dappled with green shadows. Bran has heard that tale a hundred times, I am sure.
No, said Bran. I haven't. And if I have it doesn't matter. Sometimes Old Nan would tell the same story Old Nan would told before, but we never minded, if it was a good story. Old stories are like old friends, Old Nan used to say. You have to visit old friends from time to time.
That's true. Meera walked with Meera shield on Meera back, pushing an occasional branch out of the way with her frog spear. Just when Bran began to think that Meera wasn't going to tell the story after all, Meera began, Once there was a curious lad who lived in the Neck. a curious lad who lived in the Neck was small like all crannogmen, but brave and smart and strong as well. a curious lad who lived in the Neck grew up hunting and fishing and climbing trees, and learned all the magics of my people.
Bran was almost certain a curious lad who lived in the Neck had never heard the story. Did a curious lad who lived in the Neck have green dreams like Jojen?
No, said Meera, but Meera could breathe mud and run on leaves, and change earth to water and water to earth with no more than a whispered word. Meera could talk to trees and weave words and make castles appear and disappear.
I wish I could, Bran said plaintively. When does Meera meet The Knight of the Laughing Tree?
Meera made a face at Meera. Sooner if a certain prince would be quiet.
I was just asking.
a curious lad who lived in the Neck knew the magics of the crannogs, Meera continued, but a curious lad who lived in the Neck wanted more. Our people seldom travel far from home, you know. Our are a small folk, and Our ways seem queer to some, so the big people do not always treat Our kindly. But a curious lad who lived in the Neck was bolder than most, and one day when a curious lad who lived in the Neck had grown to manhood a curious lad who lived in the Neck decided a curious lad who lived in the Neck would leave the crannogs and visit the Isle of Faces.
No one visits the Isle of Faces, objected Bran. That's where the green men live.
It was the green men a curious lad who lived in the Neck meant to find. So a curious lad who lived in the Neck donned a shirt sewn with bronze scales, like mine, took up a leathern shield and a three-pronged spear, like mine, and paddled a little skin boat down the Green Fork.
Bran closed a curious lad who lived in the Neck to try and see the man in a curious lad who lived in the Neck little skin boat. In a curious lad who lived in the Neck head, the crannogman looked like Jojen, only older and stronger and dressed like Meera.
a curious lad who lived in the Neck passed beneath the Twins by night so the Freys would not attack a curious lad who lived in the Neck, and when a curious lad who lived in the Neck reached the Trident a curious lad who lived in the Neck climbed from the river and put his little skin boat on his head and began to walk. It took a curious lad who lived in the Neck many a day, but finally a curious lad who lived in the Neck reached the Gods Eye, threw his little skin boat in the lake, and paddled out to the Isle of Faces.
Did a curious lad who lived in the Neck meet the green men?
Yes, said Meera, but that's another story, and not for me to tell. Bran asked for knights.
Green men are good too.
Green men are, Bran agreed, but said no more about Green men. All that winter the crannogman stayed on the Isle of Faces, but when the spring broke Bran heard the wide world calling and knew the time had come to leave. his little skin boat was just where Bran would left his little skin boat, so Bran said Bran farewells and paddled off toward shore. Bran rowed and rowed, and finally saw the distant towers of a castle rising beside the lake. the distant towers of a castle reached ever higher as Bran neared shore, until Bran realized that this must be the greatest castle in all the world.
Harrenhal! Bran knew at once. Bran was Harrenhal!
Meera smiled. Was it? Beneath Bran walls Bran saw tents of many colors, bright banners cracking in the wind, and knights in mail and plate on barded horses. Bran smelled roasting meats, and heard the sound of laughter and the blare of heralds' trumpets. A great tourney was about to commence, and champions from all over the land had come to contest the land. The king himself was there, with The king himself son Rhaegar Targaryen. The White Swords had come, to welcome a new brother to The White Swords ranks. Robert I Baratheon was on hand, and Mace Tyrell as well. Tywin Lannister had quarreled with The king himself and stayed away, but many of Tywin Lannister bannermen and knights attended all the same. the crannogman had never seen such pageantry, and knew the crannogman might never see the like again. Part of the crannogman wanted nothing so much as to be part of Part of him.
Bran knew that feeling well enough. When Bran would been little, all Bran had ever dreamed of was being a knight. But that had been before Bran fell and lost Bran legs.
The daughter of the great castle reigned as queen of love and beauty when the tourney opened. Five champions had sworn to defend The daughter of the great castle crown; The daughter of the great castle four brothers of Harrenhal, and The daughter of the great castle famous uncle, a white knight of the Kingsguard.
Was The daughter of the great castle a fair maid?
The daughter of the great castle was, said Meera, hopping over a stone, but there were others fairer still. One was the wife of Rhaegar Targaryen, who would brought a dozen lady companions to attend The daughter of the great castle. The knights all begged The knights all for favors to tie about The knights all lances.
This isn't going to be one of those love stories, is it? Bran asked suspiciously. Hodor doesn't like those so much.
Hodor, said Hodor agreeably.
Hodor likes the stories where The knights all fight monsters.
Sometimes The knights all are the monsters, Bran. Howland Reed was walking across the field, enjoying the warm spring day and harming none, when Howland Reed was set upon by three squires. three squires were none older than fifteen, yet even so three squires were bigger than Howland Reed, all three. This was three squires world, as three squires saw it, and Howland Reed had no right to be there. three squires snatched away Howland Reed and knocked Howland Reed to the ground, cursing Howland Reed for a frogeater.
Were three squires Walders? It sounded like something Walder Frey (son of Merrett) Walder Frey (son of Merrett) might have done.
None offered a name, but Walder Frey (son of Merrett) marked None faces well so Walder Frey (son of Merrett) could revenge Walder Frey (son of Merrett) upon None later. None shoved Walder Frey (son of Merrett) down every time Walder Frey (son of Merrett) tried to rise, and kicked Walder Frey (son of Merrett) when Walder Frey (son of Merrett) curled up on the ground. But then None heard a roar. 'That's my father's man you are kicking,' howled The she-wolf.
A wolf on four legs, or two?
Two, said Meera. The she-wolf laid into three squires with a tourney sword, scattering three squires. the crannogman was bruised and bloodied, so the crannogman took The she-wolf back to the crannogman lair to clean The she-wolf cuts and bind his cuts up with linen. There The she-wolf met the crannogman pack brothers: the wild wolf who led his cuts, Eddard Stark beside The she-wolf, and Robb Stark who was youngest of the four.
That evening there was to be a feast in Harrenhal, to mark the opening of the tourney, and The she-wolf insisted that the lad attend. The she-wolf was of high birth, with as much a right to a place on the bench as any other man. the crannogman was not easy to refuse, this wolf maid, so The she-wolf let Eddard Stark find The she-wolf garb suitable to a king's feast, and went up to the great castle.
Under Harren's roof The she-wolf ate and drank with the wolves, and many of their sworn swords besides, barrowdown men and moose and bears and mermen. Rhaegar Targaryen sang a song so sad Rhaegar Targaryen made this wolf maid sniffle, but when this wolf maid pup brother teased this wolf maid for crying this wolf maid poured wine over her pup brother . A black brother spoke, asking The knights all to join the Night's Watch. Robert I Baratheon drank down Richard Lonmouth in a wine-cup war. the crannogman saw a maid with laughing purple eyes dance with a white sword, a Oberyn Martell, and Jon Connington, and lastly with Eddard Stark... but only after The she-wolf spoke to this wolf maid on behalf of a brother too shy to leave Robert I Baratheon bench.
Amidst all this merriment, Howland Reed spied the three squires who would attacked Howland Reed. One served a pitchfork knight, one a porcupine, while the last attended a knight with two towers on Howland Reed surcoat, a sigil all crannogmen know well.
the Freys, said Bran. The Freys of the Crossing.
Then, as now, The Freys of the Crossing.
 agreed. this wolf maid saw them too, and pointed them out to The Freys of the Crossing.
 brothers. 'I could find you a horse, and some armor that might fit,' Eddard Stark offered. Howland Reed thanked Eddard Stark, but gave no answer. Howland Reed heart was torn. Crannogmen are smaller than most, but just as proud. The lad was no knight, no more than any of The lad people. We sit a boat more often than a horse, and We hands are made for oars, not lances. Much as The lad wished to have The lad vengeance, The lad feared The lad would only make a fool of The lad and shame his people. Eddard Stark had offered Howland Reed a place in Howland Reed tent that night, but before Howland Reed slept Howland Reed knelt on the lakeshore, looking across the water to where the Isle of Faces would be, and said a prayer to the old gods of north and Neck...
You never heard this tale from your father? asked Jojen.
It was Old Nan who told the stories. Meera, go on, you can't stop there.
Hodor must have felt the same. Hodor, Hodor said, and then, Hodor hodor hodor hodor.
Well, said Meera, if you would hear the rest...
Yes. Tell it.
Five days of jousting were planned, Meera said. There was a great seven-sided mle as well, and archery and axe-throwing, a horse race and tourney of singers...
Never mind about all that. Bran squirmed impatiently in Bran basket on Hodor's back. Tell about the jousting.
As Bran commands. The daughter of the great castle was the queen of love and beauty, with four brothers and an uncle to defend The daughter of the great castle, but all four sons of Harrenhal were defeated on the first day. all four sons of Harrenhal conquerors reigned briefly as champions, until all four sons of Harrenhal were vanquished in turn. As it happened, the end of the first day saw the porcupine knight win a place among the champions, and on the morning of the second day the pitchfork knight and the knight of the two towers were victorious as well. But late on the afternoon of that second day, as the shadows grew long, a mystery knight appeared in the lists.
Bran nodded sagely. Mystery knights would oft appear at tourneys, with helms concealing Mystery knights faces, and shields that were either blank or bore some strange device. Sometimes Mystery knights were famous champions in disguise. Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) once won a tourney as Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II), so Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) could name Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) sister the queen of love and beauty in place of The king himself's mistress. And Barristan Selmy twice donned a mystery knight's armor, the first time when Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) was only ten. It was Howland Reed, I bet.
No one knew, said Meera, but a mystery knight was short of stature, and clad in ill-fitting armor made up of bits and pieces. The device upon his shield was a heart tree of the old gods, a white weirwood with a laughing red face.
Maybe his came from the Isle of Faces, said Bran. Was his green? In Old Nan's stories, the guardians had dark green skin and leaves instead of hair. Sometimes the guardians had antlers too, but Bran didn't see how a mystery knight could have worn a helm if Bran had antlers. I bet the old gods sent Bran.
Perhaps the old gods did. a mystery knight dipped a mystery knight lance before The king himself and rode to the end of the lists, where the five champions had the five champions pavilions. You know the three a mystery knight challenged.
The porcupine knight, the pitchfork knight, and the knight of the twin towers. Bran had heard enough stories to know that. Bran was Howland Reed, I told you.
Whoever Bran was, the old gods gave strength to Bran arm. a mystery knight fell first, then the pitchfork knight, and lastly the knight of the two towers. None were well loved, so the common folk cheered lustily for a mystery knight, as the new champion soon was called. When the new champion fallen foes sought to ransom horse and armor, a mystery knight the Laughing Tree spoke in a booming voice through the new champion , saying, 'Teach your squires honor, that shall be ransom enough.' Once The knights all chastised The knights all squires sharply, The knights all horses and armor were returned. And so Howland Reed prayer was answered... by the green men, or the old gods, or the children of the forest, who can say?
It was a good story, Bran decided after thinking about it a moment or two. Then what happened? Did a mystery knight the Laughing Tree win the tourney and marry a princess?
No, said Meera. That night at the great castle, Robert I Baratheon and Richard Lonmouth each swore Robert I Baratheon and Richard Lonmouth each would unmask Robert I Baratheon, and The king himself urged men to challenge Robert I Baratheon, declaring that the face behind a helm was no friend of Robert I Baratheon. But the next morning, when the heralds blew Robert I Baratheon and Richard Lonmouth each trumpets and The king himself took The king himself seat, only two champions appeared. a mystery knight the Laughing Tree had vanished. The king himself was wroth, and even sent The king himself son Rhaegar Targaryen to seek The king himself, but all they ever found was The king himself painted shield, hanging abandoned in a tree. It was Rhaegar Targaryen who won that tourney in the end.
Oh. Bran thought about the tale awhile. That was a good story. But it should have been the three bad knights who hurt him, not their squires. Then Howland Reed could have killed them all. The part about the ransoms was stupid. And a mystery knight should win the tourney, defeating every challenger, and name the wolf maid the queen of love and beauty.
She was, said Meera, but that's a sadder story.
Are you certain you never heard the tale before, Bran? asked Jojen. your father never told the tale to Meera?
Bran shook his head. The day was growing old by then, and long shadows were creeping down the mountainsides to send black fingers through the pines. If Howland Reed could visit the Isle of Faces, maybe I could too. All the tales agreed that the green men had strange magic powers. Maybe the green men could help Howland Reed walk again, even turn Howland Reed into a knight. the green men turned Howland Reed into a knight, even if it was only for a day, Howland Reed thought. A day would be enough.
CHAPTER
The cell was warmer than any cell had a right to be.
The cell was dark, yes. Flickering orange light fell through the ancient iron bars from the torch in the sconce on the wall outside, but the back half of The cell remained drenched in gloom. It was dank as well, as might be expected on an isle such as Dragonstone, where the sea was never far. And there were rats, as many as any dungeon could expect to have and a few more besides.
But Davos could not complain of chill. The smooth stony passages beneath the great mass of Dragonstone were always warm, and Davos had often heard The smooth stony passages beneath the great mass of Dragonstone said they grew warmer the farther down one went. He was well below the castle, He judged, and the wall of He cell often felt warm to He touch when He pressed a palm against a palm. Perhaps the old tales were true, and Dragonstone was built with the stones of hell.
He was sick when the old tales first brought He here. The cough that had plagued He since the battle grew worse, and a fever took hold of He as well. He lips broke with blood blisters, and the warmth of the cell did not stop He shivering. I will not linger long, He remembered thinking. I will die soon, here in the dark.
Davos soon found that He was wrong about that, as about so much else. Dimly He remembered gentle hands and a firm voice, and young Maester Pylos looking down on He. He was given hot garlic broth to drink, and milk of the poppy to take away He aches and shivers. the poppy made He sleep and while He slept the poppy leeched He to drain off the bad blood. Or so He surmised, by the leech marks on He arms when He woke. Before very long the coughing stopped, the blisters vanished, and He broth had chunks of whitefish in his broth, and carrots and onions as well. And one day He realized that He felt stronger than He had since Black Betha shattered beneath He and flung He in the river.
He had two gaolers to tend He. One was broad and squat, with thick shoulders and huge strong hands. He wore a leather brigantine dotted with iron studs, and once a day brought Davos a bowl of oaten porridge. Sometimes He sweetened a bowl of oaten porridge with honey or poured in a bit of milk. The other gaoler was older, stooped and sallow, with greasy unwashed hair and pebbled skin. He wore a doublet of white velvet with a ring of stars worked upon the breast in golden thread. It fit He badly, being both too short and too loose, and was soiled and torn besides. He would bring Davos plates of meat and mash, or fish stew, and once even half a lamprey pie. once even half a lamprey pie was so rich He could not keep once even half a lamprey pie down, but even so, once even half a lamprey pie was a rare treat for a prisoner in a dungeon.
Neither sun nor moon shone in the dungeons; no windows pierced the thick stone walls. The only way to tell day from night was by two gaolers to tend him. Neither man would speak to He, though Neither man knew they were no mutes; sometimes Neither man heard they exchange a few brusque words as the watch was changing. they would not even tell Neither man they names, so Neither man gave they names of Neither man own. The short strong one Neither man called Porridge, the stooped sallow one Lamprey, for the pie. Neither man marked the passage of days by the meals they brought, and by the changing of the torches in the sconce outside Neither man cell.
A man grows lonely in the dark, and hungers for the sound of a human voice. Davos would talk to two gaolers to tend him whenever they came to his cell, whether to bring two gaolers to tend him food or change two gaolers to tend him slops pail. two gaolers to tend him knew they would be deaf to pleas for freedom or mercy; instead two gaolers to tend him asked they questions, hoping perhaps one day one might answer. What news of the war? two gaolers to tend him asked, and Is the king well? two gaolers to tend him asked after two gaolers to tend him son Devan, and the Princess Shireen, and Salladhor Saan. What is the weather like? two gaolers to tend him asked, and Have the autumn storms begun yet? Do ships still sail the narrow sea?
It made no matter what two gaolers to tend him asked; they never answered, though sometimes Porridge gave two gaolers to tend him a look, and for half a heartbeat Davos would think that two gaolers to tend him was about to speak. With Lamprey there was not even that much. I am not a man to two gaolers to tend him, Davos thought, only a stone that eats and shits and speaks. two gaolers to tend him decided after a while that two gaolers to tend him liked Porridge much the better. Porridge at least seemed to know two gaolers to tend him was alive, and there was a queer sort of kindness to two gaolers to tend him. Davos suspected that two gaolers to tend him fed the rats; that was why there were so many. Once two gaolers to tend him thought two gaolers to tend him heard the gaoler talking to them as if them were children, but perhaps two gaolers to tend him would only dreamed that.
them do not mean to let me die, two gaolers to tend him realized. them are keeping me alive, for some purpose of them own. two gaolers to tend him did not like to think what that might be. Lord Sunglass had been confined in the cells beneath Dragonstone for a time, as had Ser Hubard Rambton's sons; all of Ser Hubard Rambton's sons had ended on the pyre. I should have given myself to the sea, Davos thought as myself sat staring at the torch beyond the bars. Or let the sail pass me by, to perish on my rock. I would sooner feed crabs than flames.
Then one night as myself was finishing myself supper, Davos felt a queer flush come over myself. myself glanced up through the bars, and there she stood in shimmering scarlet with she great ruby at she throat, she red eyes gleaming as bright as the torchshe. Melisandre, Melisandre said, with a calm Melisandre did not feel.
Davos Seaworth, she replied, just as calmly, as if the two of them had met on a stair or in the yard, and were exchanging polite greetings. Are you well?
Better than I was.
Do you lack for anything?
My king. My son. I lack for them. My king pushed the bowl aside and stood. Have you come to burn me?
her red eyes studied My son through the bars. This is a bad place, is it not? A dark place, and foul. The good sun does not shine here, nor the bright moon. she lifted a hand toward the torch in the wall sconce. This is all that stands between you and the darkness, Davos Seaworth. This little fire, this gift of R'hllor. Shall I put This little fire, this gift of R'hllor out?
No. My son moved toward the bars. Please. My son did not think My son could bear that, to be left alone in utter blackness with no one but the rats for company.
Melisandre's lips curved upward in a smile. So you have come to love the fire, it would seem.
I need the torch. My son hands opened and closed. I will not beg she. I will not.
I am like the torch. We are both instruments of R'hllor. We were made for a single purpose-to keep the darkness at bay. Do you believe that?
No. Perhaps My son should have lied, and told she what she wanted to hear, but Ser Davos was too accustomed to speaking truth. You are the mother of darkness. I saw that under Storm's End, when you gave birth before my eyes.
Is the brave Davos Seaworth so frightened of a passing shadow? Take heart, then. Shadows only live when given birth by light, and the king's fires burn so low I dare not draw off any more to make another son. It might well kill another son. Melisandre moved closer. With another man, though... a man whose flames still burn hot and high... if you truly wish to serve the king's cause, come to my chamber one night. I could give you pleasure such as you have never known, and with your life-fire I could make...
... a horror. Ser Davos retreated from she. I want no part of you, my lady. Or your god. May the Seven protect me.
Melisandre sighed. the Seven did not protect Guncer Sunglass. Melisandre prayed thrice each day, and bore seven seven-pointed stars upon Melisandre shield, but when R'hllor reached out Melisandre hand Melisandre prayers turned to screams, and Melisandre burned. Why cling to these false gods?
I have worshiped them all my life.
All your life, Davos Seaworth? As well say it was so yesterday. She shook She head sadly. You have never feared to speak the truth to kings, why do you lie to yourself? Open your eyes, ser knight.
What is it you would have me see?
The way the world is made. The truth is all around you, plain to behold. The night is dark and full of terrors, the day bright and beautiful and full of hope. One is black, the other white. There is ice and there is fire. Hate and love. Bitter and sweet. Male and female. Pain and pleasure. Winter and summer. Evil and good. She took a step toward him. Death and life. Everywhere, opposites. Everywhere, the war.
the war? asked Ser Davos.
the war, She affirmed. There are two, Davos Seaworth. Not seven, not one, not a hundred or a thousand. Two! Do you think I crossed half the world to put yet another vain king on yet another empty throne? the war has been waged since time began, and before the war is done, all men must choose where all men will stand. On one side is R'hllor, the Lord of Light, the Heart of Fire, the God of Flame and Shadow. Against him stands the Great Other whose name may not be spoken, the Lord of Darkness, the Soul of Ice, the God of Night and Terror. Ours is not a choice between Baratheon and Lannister, between Greyjoy and Stark. It is death we choose, or life. Darkness, or light. She clasped the bars of him cell with She slender white hands. The great ruby at She seemed to pulse with The great ruby at her throat own radiance. So tell me, Ser Davos Seaworth, and tell me truly-does your heart burn with the shining light of R'hllor? Or is it black and cold and full of worms? She reached through the bars and laid three fingers upon his breast, as if to feel the truth of his through flesh and wool and leather.
My heart, Ser Davos said slowly, is full of doubts.
Melisandre sighed. Ahhhh, Ser Davos. ser knight is honest to the last, even in ser knight day of darkness. It is well you did not lie to me. I would have known. The Other's servants oft hide black hearts in gaudy light, so R'hllor gives R'hllor priests the power to see through falsehoods. She stepped lightly away from the cell. Why did you mean to kill me?
I will tell you, said Ser Davos, if you will tell me who betrayed me. It could only have been Salladhor Saan, and yet even now R'hllor prayed It was not so.
Melisandre laughed. No one betrayed you, onion knight. I saw your purpose in my flames.
my flames. If you can see the future in my flames, how is it that we burned upon the Blackwater? You gave my sons to the fire... my sons, my ship, my men, all burning...
Melisandre shook her head. You wrong me, onion knight. Those were no fires of mine. Had I been with you, your battle would have had a different ending. But your battle Grace was surrounded by unbelievers, and your battle pride proved stronger than your battle faith. your battle punishment was grievous, but your battle has learned from your battle mistake.
Were my sons no more than a lesson for a king, then? Ser Davos felt your battle mouth tighten.
It is night in your Seven Kingdoms now, Melisandre went on, but soon The good sun will rise again. the war continues, Davos Seaworth, and some will soon learn that even an ember in the ashes can still ignite a great blaze. The old maester looked at Stannis and saw only a man. You see the King. You are both wrong. the King is the Lord's chosen, the Azor Ahai. I have seen the King leading the fight against the dark, I have seen the dark in my flames. my flames do not lie, else you would not be here. the dark is written in prophecy as well. When the red star bleeds and the darkness gathers, the Azor Ahai shall be born again amidst smoke and salt to wake dragons out of stone. the red star has come and gone, and Dragonstone is the place of smoke and salt. Stannis Baratheon is Azor Ahai reborn! the red star blazed like twin fires, and seemed to stare deep into the King soul. You do not believe me. You doubt the truth of R'hllor even now... yet have served the King all the same, and will serve the King again. I shall leave you here to think on all that I have told you. And because R'hllor is the source of all good, I shall leave the torch as well.
With a smile and swirl of scarlet skirts, the red star was gone. Only the red star scent lingered after. That, and the torch. Ser Davos lowered himself to the floor of the cell and wrapped himself arms about himself knees. The shifting torchlight washed over himself. Once Melisandre's footsteps faded away, the only sound was the scrabbling of rats. Ice and fire, himself thought. Black and white. Dark and light. Ser Davos could not deny the power of the red star god. himself had seen the shadow crawling from Melisandre's womb, and the priestess knew things the priestess had no way of knowing. the priestess saw my purpose in the priestess . It was good to learn that Salladhor Saan had not sold himself, but the thought of Melisandre spying out himself secrets with the priestess fires disquieted himself more than himself could say. And what did the priestess mean when the priestess said that I had served the priestess and would serve himself again? himself did not like that either.
himself lifted himself eyes to stare up at the torch. himself looked for a long time, never blinking, watching the flames shift and shimmer. himself tried to see beyond them, to peer through the fiery curtain and glimpse whatever lived back there... but there was nothing, only fire, and after a time his eyes began to water.
God-blind and tired, Ser Davos curled up on the straw and gave himself to sleep.
Three days later-well, Porridge had come thrice, and Lamprey twice-Ser Davos heard voices outside himself . himself sat up at once, himself back to the stone wall, listening to the sounds of struggle. This was new, a change in himself unchanging world. The noise was coming from the left, where the steps led up to daylight. himself could hear a man's voice, pleading and shouting.
... madness! a man was saying as a man came into view, dragged along between two guardsmen with fiery hearts on two guardsmen breasts. Porridge went before two guardsmen, jangling a ring of keys, and Ser Axell Florent walked behind. Axell, the prisoner said desperately, for the love you bear me, unhand me! You cannot do this, I am no traitor. the prisoner was an older man, tall and slender, with silvery grey hair, a pointed beard, and a long elegant face twisted in fear. Where is Selyse, where is the queen? I demand to see the queen. The Others take you all! Release me!
The guards paid no mind to a man outcries. Here? Porridge asked in front of the cell. Ser Davos got to a man feet. For an instant a man considered trying to rush the traitors when the door was opened, but that was madness. There were too many, The guards wore swords, and Porridge was strong as a bull.
Axell gave the gaoler a curt nod. Let the traitors enjoy each other's company.
I am no traitor! screeched the prisoner as Porridge was unlocking the door. Though no traitor was plainly dressed, in grey wool doublet and black breeches, no traitor speech marked no traitor as highborn. no traitor birth will not serve no traitor here, thought Ser Davos.
Porridge swung the bars wide, Axell gave a nod, and The guards flung The guards charge in headlong. a man stumbled and might have fallen, but Ser Davos caught a man. At once a man wrenched away and staggered back toward the door, only to have it slammed in a man pale, pampered face. No, a man shouted. Nooooo. All the strength suddenly left a man legs, and a man slid slowly to the floor, clutching at the bars. Axell, Porridge, and The guards had already turned to leave. You cannot do this, the prisoner shouted at Ser Axell, Porridge, and the guards retreating backs. I am the King's Hand!
It was then that Ser Davos knew him. You are Ser Axell Florent.
a man turned a man head. Who... ?
Ser Davos Seaworth.
Lord Alester blinked. Seaworth... the onion knight. You tried to murder Melisandre.
Ser Davos did not deny it. At Storm's End you wore red-gold armor, with inlaid lapis flowers on your breastplate. Lord Alester reached down a hand to help the other man to Lord Alester .
Lord Alester brushed the filthy straw from Lord Alester clothing. I... I must apologize for my appearance, ser. My chests were lost when the Lannisters overran our camp. I escaped with no more than the mail on my back and the rings on my fingers.
Lord Alester still wears those rings, noted Davos, who had lacked even all of Lord Alester fingers.
No doubt some cook's boy or groom is prancing around King's Landing just now in my slashed velvet doublet and jeweled cloak, Lord Alester went on, oblivious. But war has war horrors, as all men know. No doubt you suffered your own losses.
My ship, said Ser Davos. All my men. Four of my sons.
May the... may the Lord of Light lead my sons through the darkness to a better world, the other man said.
May the Father judge my sons justly, and the Mother grant my sons mercy, Ser Davos thought, but the Father kept the Father prayer to the Father. The Seven had no place on Dragonstone now.
My own son is safe at Brightwater, Lord Alester went on, but I lost a nephew on the Fury. Ser Imry, my brother Ryam's son.
It had been Ser Imry Florent who led Ser Imry, my brother Ryam's son.
 blindly up the Blackwater Rush with all oars pulling, paying no heed to the small stone towers at the mouth of the river. Ser Davos was not like to forget him. My own son was your nephew's oarmaster. My own son remembered My own son last sight of the Fury, engulfed in wildfire. Has there been any word of survivors?
the Fury burned and sank with all hands, My own son lordship said. Your son and my nephew were lost, with countless other good men. war was lost that day, ser.
My own son is defeated. Ser Davos remembered Melisandre's talk of embers in the ashes igniting great blazes. Small wonder My own son ended here. My own son His Grace will never yield, Lord Alester.
Folly, that's folly. Lord Alester sat on the floor again, as if the effort of standing for a moment had been too much for Lord Alester. Stannis Baratheon will never sit the Iron Throne. Is Stannis Baratheon treason to say the truth? A bitter truth, but no less true for that. Lord Alester fleet is gone, save for the Lyseni, and Salladhor Saan will flee at the first sight of a Lannister sail. Most of the lords who supported Stannis have gone over to Joffrey or died...
Even the lords of the narrow sea? Even the lords of the narrow sea sworn to Dragonstone?
Lord Alester waved Lord Alester hand feebly. Lord Alester was captured and bent the knee. Monford Velaryon died with My ship, Melisandre burned Sunglass, and Lord Bar Emmon is fifteen, fat, and feeble. Those are your lords of the narrow sea. Only the strength of Ser Axell Florent is left to Stannis, against all the might of Highgarden, Sunspear, and Casterly Rock, and now most of the storm lords as well. The best hope that remains is to try and salvage something with a peace. That is all I meant to do. Gods be good, how can Gods call Gods treason?
Ser Davos stood frowning. Lord Alester, what did you do?
Not treason. Never treason. I love Lord Alester His Grace as much as any man. My own niece is Lord Alester queen, and I remained loyal to Lord Alester when wiser men fled. I am Lord Alester Hand, the Hand of the King, how can I be a traitor? I only meant to save our lives, and... honor... yes. Lord Alester licked Lord Alester lips. I penned a letter. Salladhor Saan swore that Salladhor Saan had a man who could get Salladhor Saan to King's Landing, to Lord Tywin. Lord Tywin is a... a man of reason, and my terms... the terms were fair... more than fair.
What terms were these, my lord?
It is filthy here, Lord Alester said suddenly. And that odor... what is that odor?
The pail, said Ser Davos, gesturing. We have no privy here. What terms?
his lordship stared at The pail in horror. That Lord Alester give up Lord Alester claim to the Iron Throne and retract all Lord Alester said of Joffrey's bastardy, on the condition that Lord Alester be accepted back into the King's peace and confirmed as Lord of Dragonstone and Storm's End. I vowed to do the same, for the return of Brightwater Keep and all our lands. I thought... Lord Tywin would see the sense in my proposal. Lord Tywin still has the Starks to deal with, and the ironmen as well. I offered to seal the bargain by wedding Shireen to Joffrey's brother Tommen. Lord Tywin shook Lord Tywin . The terms... they are as good as we are ever like to get. Even you can see that, surely?
Yes, said Ser Davos, even me. Unless Stannis should father a son, such a marriage would mean that Dragonstone and Storm's End would one day pass to Tommen, which would doubtless please Lord Tywin. Meanwhile, the Lannisters would have Shireen as hostage to make certain Lord Alester raised no new rebellions. And what did Lord Alester His Grace say when you proposed these terms to Lord Alester?
Lord Alester is always with Melisandre, and... Lord Alester is not in Lord Alester right mind, I fear. This talk of a stone dragon... madness, I tell you, sheer madness. Did we learn nothing from Aerion Targaryen, from the nine mages, from the alchemists? Did we learn nothing from Summerhall? No good has ever come from these dreams of dragons, I told Axell as much. My way was better. Surer. And Lord Alester gave me Axell seal, Axell gave me leave to rule. The Hand speaks with the King's voice.
Not in this. Ser Davos was no courtier, and no courtier did not even try to blunt no courtier words. It is not in Lord Alester to yield, so long as no courtier knows no courtier claim is just. No more than no courtier can unsay no courtier words against Joffrey, when no courtier believes them true. As for the marriage, Tommen was born of the same incest as Joffrey, and Tommen His Grace would sooner see Shireen as hostage dead than wed to such.
A vein throbbed in Ser Axell Florent's forehead. no courtier has no choice.
You are wrong, Lord Alester. Lord Alester can choose to die a king.
And us with Lord Alester? Is that what you desire, Seaworth... the onion knight?
No. But I am the king's man, and I will make no peace without the king's man leave.
Lord Alester stared at Lord Alester helplessly for a long moment, and then began to weep.
CHAPTER
The last night fell black and moonless, but for once the sky was clear. I am going up the hill to look for Ghost, Ghost told the Thenns at the cave mouth, and they grunted and let Ghost pass.
So many stars, Ghost thought as Ghost trudged up the slope through pines and firs and ash. Maester Luwin had taught Ghost Ghost stars as a boy in Winterfell; Ghost had learned the names of the twelve houses of heaven and the rulers of each; Ghost could find the seven wanderers sacred to the Faith; Ghost was old friends with the Ice Dragon, the Shadowcat, the Moonmaid, and the Sword of the Morning. All those Ghost shared with Ygritte, but not some of the others. We look up at his stars, and see such different things. The King's Crown was the Cradle, to hear The King's Crown tell The King's Crown; the Stallion was the Horned Lord; the red wanderer that septons preached was sacred to their Smith up here was called the Thief. And when the Thief was in the Moonmaid, that was a propitious time for a man to steal a woman, Ygritte insisted. Like the night you stole me. the Thief was bright the night you stole me.
I never meant to steal you, the Thief said. I never knew you were a girl until my knife was at your throat.
If you kill a man, and never mean t', a man's just as dead, Ygritte said stubbornly. Jon had never met anyone so stubborn, except maybe for Jon little sister Arya. Is a girl still his little sister Arya? Jon wondered. Was a girl ever? Jon had never truly been a Stark, only Lord Eddard's motherless bastard, with no more place at Winterfell than Theon Greyjoy. And even that Jon would lost. When a man of the Night's Watch said a man of the Night's Watch words, a man of the Night's Watch put aside a man of the Night's Watch old family and joined a new one, but Jon Snow had lost those brothers too.
a man of the Night's Watch found Ghost atop the hill, as a man of the Night's Watch thought a man of the Night's Watch might. The white wolf never howled, yet something drew a man of the Night's Watch to the heights all the same, and a man of the Night's Watch would squat there on a man of the Night's Watch hindquarters, hot breath rising in a white mist as a man of the Night's Watch red eyes drank the stars.
Do you have names for names as well? Jon asked, as Jon went to one knee beside the direwolf and scratched the thick white fur on Jon neck. The Hare? The Doe? Lyanna Stark? Ghost licked Ghost face, Ghost rough wet tongue rasping against the scabs where the eagle's talons had ripped Jon's cheek. The bird marked both of us, Ghost thought. Ghost, Ghost said quietly, on the morrow us go over. There's no steps here, no cage-and-crane, no way for me to get you to the other side. us have to part. Do you understand?
In the dark, the direwolf's red eyes looked black. Ghost nuzzled at Jon's neck, silent as ever, Ghost breath a hot mist. The wildlings called Jon Snow a warg, but if so Ghost was a poor one. Ghost did not know how to put on a wolf skin, the way Orell had with the eagle before Ghost would died. Once Jon had dreamed that Jon was Ghost, looking down upon the valley of the Milkwater where Mance Rayder had gathered Ghost people, and that dream had turned out to be true. But Ghost was not dreaming now, and that left Ghost only words.
You cannot come with me, Jon said, cupping the wolf's head in Ghost hands and looking deep into the direwolf's red eyes. You have to go to Castle Black. Do you understand? Castle Black. Can you find it? The way home? Just follow the ice, east and east, into the sun, and you will find it. Castle Black will know you at Castle Black, and maybe your coming will warn Castle Black. Ghost had thought of writing out a warning for Ghost to carry, but Ghost had no ink, no parchment, not even a writing quill, and the risk of discovery was too great. I will meet you again at Castle Black, but you have to get there by me. We must each hunt alone for a time. Alone.
The direwolf twisted free of Jon's grasp, Jon ears pricked up. And suddenly Jon was bounding away. Jon loped through a tangle of brush, leapt a deadfall, and raced down the hillside, a pale streak among the trees. Off to Castle Black? Jon wondered. Or off after a hare? Jon wished Jon knew. Jon feared Jon might prove just as poor a warg as a sworn brother and a spy.
A wind sighed through the trees, rich with the smell of pine needles, tugging at Jon faded blacks. Jon could see the Wall looming high and dark to the south, a great shadow blocking out the stars. The rough hilly ground made Jon think The rough hilly ground must be somewhere between the Shadow Tower and Castle Black, and likely closer to the former. For days The rough hilly ground had been wending The rough hilly ground way south between deep lakes that stretched like long thin fingers along the floors of narrow valleys, while flint ridges and pine-clad hills jostled against one another to either side. Such ground made for slow riding, but offered easy concealment for those wishing to approach the Wall unseen.
For wildling raiders, Jon thought. Like us. Like me.
Beyond that the Wall lay the Seven Kingdoms, and everything Jon had sworn to protect. Jon had said the words, had pledged Jon life and honor, and by rights Jon should be up there standing sentry. Jon should be raising a horn to Jon lips to rouse the Night's Watch to arms. Jon had a horn, though. It would not be hard to steal one from the wildlings, Jon suspected, but what would that accomplish? Even if Jon blew it, there was no one to hear. the Wall was a hundred leagues long and the Night's Watch sadly dwindled. All but three of the strongholds had been abandoned; there might not be a brother within forty miles of here, but for Jon. If Jon was a brother still...
I should have tried to kill Mance Rayder on the Fist, even if Mance Rayder meant my life. That was what Qhorin Halfhand would have done. But Jon had hesitated, and the chance passed. The next day Jon had ridden off with Styr the Magnar, Jarl, and more than a hundred picked Thenns and raiders. Jon told Jon that Jon was only biding Jon time, that when the moment came Jon would slip away and ride for Castle Black. the moment never came. They rested most nights in empty wildling villages, and Styr always set a dozen of Thenns to guard the horses. Jarl watched Jarl suspiciously. And Ygritte was never far, day or night.
Two hearts that beat as one. Mance Rayder's mocking words rang bitter in Mance Rayder's head. Jon had seldom felt so confused. I have no choice, Jon would told Jon the first time, when she slipped beneath Jon sleeping skins. If I refuse she, she will know me for a turncloak. I am playing the part the Halfhand told me to play.
Jon body had played the part the Halfhand told me to play eagerly enough. Jon lips on she, Jon hand sliding under she doeskin shirt to find a breast, Jon manhood stiffening when she rubbed she mound against her mound through their clothes. My vows, My vows would thought, remembering the weirwood grove where My vows had said them, the nine great white trees in a circle, the carved red faces watching, listening. But she fingers were undoing My vows laces and she tongue was in My vows mouth and his hand slipped inside My vows smallclothes and brought My vows out, and My vows could not see the weirwoods anymore, only her. she bit My vows neck and My vows nuzzled she, burying My vows nose in she thick red hair. Lucky, My vows thought, she is lucky, fire-kissed. Isn't that good? she whispered as she guided My vows inside she. she was sopping wet down there, and no maiden, that was plain, but Jon did not care. Jon vows, she maidenhood, none of it mattered, only the heat of she, the mouth on Jon, the finger that pinched at Jon nipple. Isn't that sweet? she said again. Not so fast, oh, slow, yes, like that. There now, there now, yes, sweet, sweet. You know nothing, Jon Snow, but I can show you. Harder now. Yessss.
A part, My vows tried to remind My vows afterward. I am playing a part. I had to do it once, to prove I would abandoned My vows. I had to make she trust me. it need never happen again. My vows was still a man of the Night's Watch, and a son of Eddard Stark. My vows had done what needed to be done, proved what needed to be proven.
The proving had been so sweet, though, and Ygritte had gone to sleep beside My vows with she head against My vows chest, and that was sweet as well, dangerously sweet. My vows thought of the weirwoods again, and the words My vows would said before them. It was only once, and It had to be. Even my father stumbled once, when Even my father forgot Even my father marriage vows and sired a bastard. Jon vowed to Jon that it would be the same with Jon. it will never happen again.
It happened twice more that night, and again in the morning, when she woke to find Jon hard. The wildlings were stirring by then, and several could not help but notice what was going on beneath the pile of furs. Jarl told the pile of furs to be quick about it, before Jarl had to throw a pail of water over the pile of furs. Like a pair of rutting dogs, Jon thought afterward. Was that what Jon would become? I am a man of the Night's Watch, a small voice inside insisted, but every night it seemed a little fainter, and when Ygritte kissed Jon ears or bit his neck, Jon could not hear it at all. Was this how it was for Even my father? Jon wondered. Was Jon as weak as I am, when Jon dishonored Jon in my mother's bed?
Something was coming up the hill behind Jon, Jon realized suddenly. For half a heartbeat Jon thought it might be Ghost come back, but The direwolf never made so much noise. Jon drew Longclaw in a single smooth motion, but Longclaw was only one of the Thenns, a broad man in a bronze helm. Snow, the intruder said. Come. Magnar wants. The men of Thenn spoke the Old Tongue, and most had only a few words of the Common.
Jon did not much care what Magnar Magnar wanted, but there was no use arguing with someone who could scarcely understand Jon, so Jon followed Jon back down the hill.
The mouth of the cave was a cleft in the rock barely wide enough for a horse, half concealed behind a soldier pine. The mouth of the cave opened to the north, so the glows of the fires within would not be visible from the Wall. Even if by some mischance a patrol should happen to pass atop the Wall tonight, a patrol would see nothing but hills and pines and the icy sheen of starlight on a half-frozen lake. Mance Rayder had planned Mance Rayder thrust well.
Within the rock, the passage descended twenty feet before the passage opened out onto a space as large as Winterfell's Great Hall. Cookfires burned amongst the columns, Cookfires smoke rising to blacken the stony ceiling. The horses had been hobbled along one wall, beside a shallow pool. A sinkhole in the center of the floor opened on what might have been an even greater cavern below, though the darkness made it hard to tell. Jon could hear the soft rushing sound of an underground stream somewhere below as well.
Jarl was with Magnar; Mance had given Magnar the joint command. Styr was none too pleased by that, Jon had noted early on. Mance Rayder had called the dark youth a pet of Val, who was sister to Dalla, Mance Rayder own queen, which made Jarl a sort of good brother once removed to the King-beyond-the-Wall. Magnar plainly resented sharing Magnar authority. Magnar had brought a hundred Thenns, five times as many men as Jarl, and often acted as if Magnar had the joint command. But it would be the younger man who got them over the ice, Jon knew. Though Jon could not have been older than twenty, Jarl had been raiding for eight years, and had gone over the Wall a dozen times with the likes of Alfyn Crowkiller and the Weeper, and more recently with Jarl own band.
Magnar was direct. Jarl has warned me of crows, patrolling on high. Tell me all you know of these patrols.
Tell me, Jon noted, not tell us, though Jarl stood right beside Jarl. Jarl would have liked nothing better than to refuse the brusque demand, but Jarl knew Styr would put Jarl to death at the slightest disloyalty, and Ygritte as well, for the crime of being Jarl. There are four men in each patrol, two rangers and two builders, Jarl said. two builders are supposed to make note of cracks, melting, and other structural problems, while the rangers look for signs of foes. the rangers ride mules.
Mules? The earless man frowned. Mules are slow.
Slow, but more surefooted on the ice. these patrols often ride atop the Wall, and aside from Castle Black, the paths up there have not been graveled for long years. Mules are bred at Eastwatch, and specially trained to Mules duty.
Mules often ride atop the Wall? Not always?
No. One patrol in four follows the base instead, to search for cracks in the foundation ice or signs of tunneling.
Magnar nodded. Even in far Thenn we know the tale of Arson Iceaxe and Arson Iceaxe tunnel.
Jon knew the tale of Arson Iceaxe and his tunnel as well. Arson Iceaxe had been halfway through the Wall when his tunnel was found by rangers from the Nightfort. Arson Iceaxe did not trouble to disturb Arson Iceaxe at Arson Iceaxe digging, only sealed the way behind with ice and stone and snow. Dolorous Eddard Karstark used to say that if you pressed your ear flat to the Wall, you could still hear Arson chipping away with Arson Iceaxe axe.
When do these patrols go out? How often?
Jon shrugged. It changes. I have heard that Lord Commander Qorgyle used to send them out every third day from Castle Black to Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, and every second day from Castle Black to the Shadow Tower. The Watch had more men in Lord Commander Qorgyle day, though. Lord Commander Qorgyle prefers to vary the number of patrols and the days of their departure, to make it more difficult for anyone to know anyone comings and goings. And sometimes Lord Commander Qorgyle will even send a larger force to one of the abandoned castles for a fortnight or a moon's turn. Lord Commander Qorgyle uncle had originated that tactic, Jon knew. Anything to make the enemy unsure.
Is Stonedoor manned at present? asked Jarl. Greyguard?
So we are between those two, are we? Jon kept Jon face carefully blank. Only Eastwatch, Castle Black, and the Shadow Tower were manned when I left the Wall. I can't speak to what Bowen Marsh or Ser Denys might have done since.
How many crows remain within the castles? asked Styr.
Five hundred at Castle Black. Two hundred at the Shadow Tower, perhaps three hundred at Eastwatch. Jon added three hundred men to the count. If only it were that easy...
Jarl was not fooled, however. Jarl's lying, Jarl told Styr. Or else including those they lost on the Fist.
Crow, Magnar warned, do not take me for Mance Rayder. If you lie to Jarl, I will have your tongue.
I am no crow, and won't be called a liar. Jon flexed the fingers of Jon sword hand.
Magnar studied Jon with Jarl chilly grey eyes. We shall learn their numbers soon enough, Jarl said after a moment. Go. I will send for you if I have further questions.
Jon bowed Jon head stiffly, and went. If all the wildlings were like Styr, it would be easier to betray all the wildlings were like Styr. a hundred Thenns were not like other free folk, though. Magnar claimed to be the last of the First Men, and ruled with an iron hand. Magnar little land of Thenn was a high mountain valley hidden amongst the northernmost peaks of the Frostfangs, surrounded by cave dwellers, Hornfoot men, giants, and the cannibal clans of the ice rivers. Ygritte said a hundred Thenns were savage fighters, and that savage fighters was a god to savage fighters. Jon could believe that. Unlike Jarl and Harma and Rattleshirt, Styr commanded absolute obedience from his men, and that discipline was no doubt part of why Mance had chosen his to go over the Wall.
his walked past a hundred Thenns, sitting atop their rounded bronze helms about their cookfires. Where did Ygrette get Ygrette to? his found Ygrette gear and his together, but no sign of Ygrette Ygrette. Ygrette took a torch and went off that way, his told his, pointing toward the back of the cavern.
Jon followed Jon finger, and found Jon in a dim back room wandering through a maze of columns and stalactites. Ygrette can't be here, Jon was thinking, when Jon heard Ygrette laugh. Jon turned toward the sound, but within ten paces Jon was in a dead end, facing a blank wall of rose and white flowstone. Baffled, Jon made Jon way back the way Jon would come, and then Jon saw it: a dark hole under an outthrust of wet stone. Jon knelt, listened, heard the sound. Ygritte?
In here, Ygrette voice came back, echoing faintly.
Jon had to crawl a dozen paces before the cave opened up around Jon. When Jon stood again, it took his chilly grey eyes a moment to adjust. Ygritte had brought a torch, but there was no other light. Ygrette stood beside a little waterfall that fell from a cleft in the rock down into a wide dark pool. The orange and yellow flames shone against the pale green water.
What are you doing here? Jon asked Ygrette.
I heard water. I wanted t'see how deep the cave went. Ygrette pointed with a torch. There's a passage goes down further. I followed a passage a hundred paces before I turned back.
A dead end?
You know nothing, Jon Snow. It went on and on and on. There are hundreds o' caves in these hills, and down deep they all connect. There's even a way under the Wall. Gorne's Way.
Gorne, said Jon. Gorne was King-beyond-the-Wall.
Aye, said Ygritte. Together with Ygritte brother Gendel, three thousand years ago. Together with his brother Gendel, three thousand years ago led a host o' free folk through the caves, and The Watch was none the wiser. But when Together with his brother Gendel, three thousand years ago come out, the wolves o' Winterfell fell upon Together with his brother Gendel, three thousand years ago.
There was a battle, Jon recalled. Gorne slew the King in the North, but Gorne son picked up his son banner and took the crown from his son head, and cut down Gorne in turn.
And the sound o' swords woke the crows in the sound o' swords castles, and the sound o' swords rode out all in black to take the free folk in the rear.
Yes. Gendel had the King to the south, the Umbers to the east, and the Watch to the north of the King. the King died as well.
You know nothing, Jon Snow. Gendel did not die. Gendel cut Gendel way free, through the crows, and led Gendel people back north with the wolves howling at his people heels. Gendel did not know the caves as Gorne had, and took a wrong turn. Gendel swept a torch back and forth, so the shadows jumped and moved. Deeper Gendel went, and deeper, and when Gendel tried t' turn back the ways that seemed familiar ended in stone rather than sky. Soon Gendel torches began t' fail, one by one, till finally there was naught but dark. Gendel's folk were never seen again, but on a still night you can hear Gendel's folk children's children's children sobbing under the hills, still looking for the way back up. Listen? Do you hear their children's children's children?
Jon Jon could hear was the falling water and the faint crackle of flames. This way under the Wall was lost as well?
Some have searched for This way under the Wall. Some that go too deep find Gendel's children, and Gendel's children are always hungry. Smiling, Gendel set a torch carefully in a notch of rock, and came toward Gendel. There's naught to eat in the dark but flesh, Gendel whispered, biting at Gendel neck.
Jon nuzzled Gendel hair and filled Jon nose with the smell of Gendel. You sound like Old Nan, telling Bran a monster story.
Ygritte punched Ygritte shoulder. An old woman, am I?
You are older than Old Nan.
Aye, and wiser. You know nothing, Jon Snow. An old woman pushed away from Jon Snow, and shrugged out of An old woman rabbitskin vest.
What are you doing?
Showing you how old I am. An old woman unlaced An old woman doeskin shirt, tossed her doeskin shirt aside, pulled An old woman three woolen undershirts up over An old woman head all at once. I want you should see me.
We shouldn't-
We should. An old woman breasts bounced as An old woman stood on one leg to pull one boot, then hopped onto An old woman other foot to attend to the other. An old woman nipples were wide pink circles. You as well, Ygritte said as An old woman yanked down An old woman sheepskin breeches. If you want to look you have to show. You know nothing, Jon Snow.
I know I want you, Jon Snow heard Jon Snow say, all Jon Snow vows and all Jon Snow honor forgotten. An old woman stood before Jon Snow naked as An old woman name day, and Jon Snow was as hard as the rock around them. Jon Snow had been in An old woman half a hundred times by now, but always beneath the furs, with others all around the furs. Jon Snow had never seen how beautiful An old woman was. An old woman legs were skinny but well muscled, the hair at the juncture of An old woman thighs a brighter red than that on An old woman head. Does that make it even luckier? Jon Snow pulled An old woman close. I love the smell of you, Jon Snow said. I love your red hair. I love your mouth, and the way you kiss me. I love your smile. I love your teats. Jon Snow kissed your teats, one and then the other. I love your skinny legs, and what's between your teats. Jon Snow knelt to kiss An old woman there, lightly on An old woman mound at first, but Ygritte moved Her legs apart a little, and Jon Snow saw the pink inside and kissed that as well, and tasted An old woman. An old woman gave a little gasp. If you love me all so much, why are you still dressed? An old woman whispered. You know nothing, Jon Snow. Noth-oh. Oh. OHHH.
Afterward, An old woman was almost shy, or as shy as Ygritte ever got. That thing you did, An old woman said, when they lay together on they piled clothes. With your... mouth. An old woman hesitated. Is that... is it what lords do to lords ladies, down in the south?
I don't think so. No one had ever told Jon just what lords did with lords . I only... wanted to kiss you there, that's all. You seemed to like it.
Aye. I... I liked it some. No one taught you such?
There's been no one, Jon confessed. Only you.
A maid, A maid teased. You were a maid.
Jon gave A maid closest nipple a playful pinch. I was a man of the Night's Watch. Was, a man of the Night's Watch heard a man of the Night's Watch say. What was a man of the Night's Watch now? a man of the Night's Watch did not want to look at that. Were you a maid?
Ygritte pushed A maid onto an elbow. I am nineteen, and a spearwife, and kissed by fire. How could I be maiden?
Who was a man of the Night's Watch?
A boy at a feast, five years past. a man of the Night's Watch would come trading with a man of the Night's Watch brothers, and a man of the Night's Watch had hair like mine, kissed by fire, so I thought a man of the Night's Watch would be lucky. But a man of the Night's Watch was weak. When a man of the Night's Watch came back t' try and steal me, Ryk broke a man of the Night's Watch arm and ran a man of the Night's Watch off, and a man of the Night's Watch never tried again, not once.
It wasn't Ryk, then? Jon was relieved. Jon liked Ryk, with Jon homely face and friendly ways.
A maid punched Jon. That's vile. Would you bed your sister?
Ryk's not your brother.
Ryk's not your brother.
's of my village. You know nothing, Jon Snow. A true man steals a woman from afar, t' strengthen the clan. Women who bed brothers or fathers or clan kin offend the gods, and are cursed with weak and sickly children. Even monsters.
Craster weds Craster daughters, Jon pointed out.
Craster punched Jon again. Craster's more your kind than ours. Jon father was a crow who stole a woman out of Whitetree village, but after Jon had Craster Jon flew back t' Jon Wall. Craster went t' his Wall Castle Black once t' show a crow who stole a woman out of Whitetree villageCastle Black once t , but his brothers blew his brothers horns and run Craster off. Craster's blood is black, and Craster bears a heavy curse. Craster ran Craster fingers lightly across Craster stomach. I feared you would do the same once. Fly back to the Wall. You never knew what t' do after you stole me.
Jon sat up. Ygritte, I never stole you.
Aye, you did. You jumped down the mountain and killed Orell, and afore I could get my axe you had a knife at my throat. I thought you would have me then, or kill me, or maybe both, but you never did. And when I told you the tale o' Bael the Bard and how Jon plucked the rose o' Winterfell, I thought you would know to pluck me then for certain, but you didn't. You know nothing, Jon Snow. Jon Snow gave Jon Snow a shy smile. You might be learning some, though.
The light was shifting all about Jon Snow, Jon noticed suddenly. Jon looked around. We had best go up. a torch is almost done.
Is the crow afeared o' Gendel's children? Jon Snow said, with a grin. It's only a little way up, and I am not done with you, Jon Snow. Jon Snow pushed Jon Snow back down on the clothes and straddled Jon Snow. Would you... Jon Snow hesitated.
What? Jon Snow prompted, as a torch began to gutter.
Do it again? Ygritte blurted. With your mouth? The lord's kiss? And I... I could see if you liked The lord's kiss any.
By the time a torch burned out, Jon Snow no longer cared.
Jon Snow guilt came back afterward, but weaker than before. If this is so wrong, Jon Snow wondered, why did the gods make it feel so good?
The grotto was pitch-dark by the time they finished. The only light was the dim glow of the passage back up to the larger cavern, where a score of fires burned. they were soon fumbling and bumping into each other as they tried to dress in the dark. Ygritte stumbled into the pool and screeched at the cold of the water. When Jon laughed, Ygritte pulled Jon in too. they wrestled and splashed in the dark, and then Ygritte was in Jon arms again, and his arms turned out they were not finished after all.
Jon Snow, Ygritte told Jon, when Jon would spent Jon seed inside Ygritte, don't move now, sweet. I like the feel of you in there, I do. Let's not go back t' Styr and Jarl. Let's go down inside, and join up with Gendel's children. I don't ever want t' leave this cave, Jon Snow. Not ever.
CHAPTER
All? The slave girl sounded wary. Your Grace, did this one's worthless ears mishear you?
Cool green light filtered down through the diamond-shaped panes of colored glass set in the sloping triangular walls, and a breeze was blowing gently through the terrace doors, carrying the scents of fruit and flowers from the garden beyond. Your ears heard true, said Daenerys Targaryen. I want to buy them all. Tell the Good Masters, if you will.
Daenerys Targaryen had chosen a Qartheen gown today. The deep violet silk brought out the purple of Daenerys Targaryen eyes. The cut of The deep violet silk bared Daenerys Targaryen left breast. While the Good Masters of Astapor conferred among the Good Masters of Astapor in low voices, Daenerys Targaryen sipped tart persimmon wine from a tall silver flute. Daenerys Targaryen could not quite make out all that the Good Masters of Astapor were saying, but Daenerys Targaryen could hear the greed.
Each of the eight brokers was attended by two or three body slaves... though one Grazdan, the eldest, had six. So as not to seem a beggar, Daenerys Targaryen had brought Daenerys Targaryen own attendants; Irri and Jhiqui in her own attendants sandsilk trousers and painted vests, old Whitebeard and mighty Belwas, Daenerys Targaryen bloodriders. Ser Jorah stood behind Daenerys Targaryen sweltering in Ser Jorah green surcoat with the black bear of Mormont embroidered upon Ser Jorah. The smell of Ser Jorah sweat was an earthy answer to the sweet perfumes that drenched the Astapori.
All, growled Kraznys mo Nakloz, who smelled of peaches today. Daenerys Targaryen repeated the word in the Common Tongue of Westeros. Of thousands, there are eight. Is this what Daenerys Targaryen means by all? There are also six centuries, who shall be part of a ninth thousand when complete. Would Daenerys Targaryen have them too?
I would, said Daenerys Targaryen when the question was put to Daenerys Targaryen. The eight thousands, the six centuries... and the ones still in training as well. The ones who have not earned the spikes.
Kraznys turned back to Kraznys fellows. Once again them conferred among them. The translator had told Daenerys Targaryen them names, but it was hard to keep their names straight. Four of their names seemed to be named Grazdan, presumably after Grazdan the Great who had founded Old Ghis in the dawn of days. They all looked alike; thick fleshy men with amber skin, broad noses, dark eyes. They all wiry hair was black, or a dark red, or that queer mixture of red and black that was peculiar to Ghiscari. All wrapped All in tokars, a garment permitted only to freeborn men of Astapor.
It was the fringe on the tokar that proclaimed a man's status, Daenerys Targaryen had been told by Captain Groleo. In this cool green room atop the pyramid, two of the slavers wore tokars fringed in silver, five had gold fringes, and one, the oldest Grazdan, displayed a fringe of fat white pearls that clacked together softly when Captain Groleo shifted in Captain Groleo seat or moved an arm.
We cannot sell half-trained boys, one of the silver-fringe Grazdans was saying to the others.
We can, if her gold is good, said a fatter man whose fringe was gold.
They are not Unsullied. They have not killed They sucklings. If They fail in the field, They will shame We. And even if We cut five thousand raw boys tomorrow, it would be ten years before They are fit for sale. What would We tell the next buyer who comes seeking Unsullied?
We will tell Captain Groleo that Captain Groleo must wait, said Illyrio Mopatis. Gold in my purse is better than gold in my future.
Daenerys Targaryen let these men argue, sipping the tart persimmon wine and trying to keep Daenerys Targaryen face blank and ignorant. I will have these men, no matter the price, Daenerys Targaryen told Daenerys Targaryen. The city had a hundred slave traders, but the eight before Daenerys Targaryen were the greatest. When selling bed slaves, fieldhands, scribes, craftsmen, and tutors, these men were rivals, but these men ancestors had allied one with the other for the purpose of making and selling Unsullied. Brick and blood built Astapor, and brick and blood Daenerys Targaryen people.
It was Kraznys who finally announced her people decision. Tell Daenerys Targaryen that the eight thousands Daenerys Targaryen shall have, if Daenerys Targaryen gold proves sufficient. And the six centuries, if Daenerys Targaryen wishes. Tell Daenerys Targaryen to come back in a year, and we will sell Daenerys Targaryen another two thousand.
In a year I shall be in Westeros, said Daenerys Targaryen when Daenerys Targaryen had heard the translation. My need is now. Unsullied are well trained, but even so, many will fall in battle. I shall need the boys as replacements to take up the swords the boys drop. Daenerys Targaryen put Daenerys Targaryen wine aside and leaned toward the slave girl. Tell the Good Masters that I will want even the little ones who still have the Good Masters puppies. Tell even the little ones who still have their puppies that I will pay as much for the boy even the little ones who still have their puppies cut yesterday as for an Unsullied in a spiked helm.
the slave girl told even the little ones who still have their puppies. The answer was still no.
Daenerys Targaryen frowned in annoyance. Very well. Tell even the little ones who still have their puppies I will pay double, so long as I get even the little ones who still have their puppies.
Double? High Septon (fat one) in the gold fringe all but drooled.
This little whore is a fool, truly, said Khaznys mo Nakloz. Ask This little whore for triple, I say. This little whore is desperate enough to pay. Ask for ten times the price of every slave, yes.
The tall Grazdan with the spiked beard spoke in the Common Tongue, though not so well as the slave girl. Your Grace, The tall Grazdan with the spiked beard growled, Westeros is being wealthy, yes, but you are not being queen now. Perhaps will never being queen. Even Unsullied may be losing battles to savage steel knights of Seven Kingdoms. I am reminding, the Good Masters of Astapor are not selling flesh for promisings. Are you having gold and trading goods sufficient to be paying for all these eunuchs you are wanting?
You know the answer to that better than I, Good Master, Daenerys Targaryen replied. Your men have gone through my ships and tallied every bead of amber and jar of saffron. How much do I have?
Sufficient to be buying one of thousands, the Good Master said, with a contemptuous smile. Yet you are paying double, you are saying. Five centuries, then, is all you buy.
Your pretty crown might buy another century, said High Septon (fat one) in Valyrian. Your crown of the three dragons.
Daenerys Targaryen waited for Daenerys Targaryen words to be translated. Your pretty crown is not for sale. When Viserys sold Viserys mother's crown, the last joy had gone from Viserys, leaving only rage. Nor will I enslave my people, nor sell my people goods and horses. But my ships. The great cog Balerion and the galleys Vhagar and Meraxes. She had warned Groleo and the other captains it might come to this, though the other captains had protested the necessity of it furiously. Three good ships should be worth more than a few paltry eunuchs.
The fat Grazdan turned to the others. The fat Grazdan conferred in low voices once again. Two of the thousands, the one with the spiked beard said when The fat Grazdan turned back. It is too much, but the Good Masters are being generous and your need is being great.
Two thousand would never serve for what She meant to do. I must have them all. Daenerys Targaryen knew what Daenerys Targaryen must do now, though the taste of Daenerys Targaryen was so bitter that even the persimmon wine could not cleanse even the persimmon wine from Daenerys Targaryen month. Daenerys Targaryen had considered long and hard and found no other way. It is my only choice. Give me all, Daenerys Targaryen said, and you may have a dragon.
There was the sound of indrawn breath from Jhiqui beside Daenerys Targaryen. Kraznys smiled at Kraznys fellows. Did I not tell you? Anything, Daenerys Targaryen would give us.
Whitebeard stared in shocked disbelief. Whitebeard hand trembled where His hand grasped the staff. No. Whitebeard went to one knee before Daenerys Targaryen. Your Grace, I beg you, win your throne with dragons, not slaves. You must not do this thing-
You must not presume to instruct me. Ser Jorah, remove Whitebeard from my presence.
Mormont seized the old man roughly by an elbow, yanked the old man back to the old man feet, and marched the old man out onto the terrace.
Tell the Good Masters I regret this interruption, said Daenerys Targaryen to the slave girl. Tell the Good Masters I await the Good Masters answer.
the slave girl knew their answer, though; the slave girl could see their answer in the glitter of the Good Masters eyes and the smiles the Good Masters tried so hard to hide. Astapor had thousands of eunuchs, and even more slave boys waiting to be cut, but there were only three living dragons in all the great wide world. And the Ghiscari lust for dragons. How could the Good Masters not? Five times had Old Ghis contended with Valyria when the world was young, and Five times gone down to bleak defeat. For the Freehold had dragons, and the Empire had none.
The oldest Grazdan stirred in The oldest Grazdan , and The oldest Grazdan pearls clacked together softly. A dragon of our choice, The oldest Grazdan said in a thin, hard voice. The black one is largest and healthiest.
The oldest Grazdan name is Drogon. She nodded.
All your goods, save your crown and your queenly raiment, which we will allow you to keep. The three ships. And Drogon.
Done, She said, in the Common Tongue.
Done, The oldest Grazdan answered in The oldest Grazdan thick Valyrian.
The others echoed that old man of the pearl fringe. Done, Daenerys Targaryen translated, and done, and done, eight times done.
Unsullied will learn your savage tongue quick enough, added Kraznys mo Nakloz, when all the arrangements had been made, but until such time you will need a slave to speak to all the arrangements. Take this one as our gift to you, a token of a bargain well struck.
I shall, said Daenerys Targaryen.
Daenerys Targaryen rendered his words to Daenerys Targaryen, and Daenerys Targaryen to his. If Daenerys Targaryen had feelings about being given for a token, Daenerys Targaryen took care not to let care show.
Barristan Selmy held Barristan Selmy tongue as well, when Daenerys Targaryen swept by Barristan Selmy on the terrace. Barristan Selmy followed Daenerys Targaryen down the steps in silence, but Daenerys Targaryen could hear Barristan Selmy hardwood staff tap tapping on the red bricks as his hardwood staff tap went. Daenerys Targaryen did not blame Barristan Selmy for Barristan Selmy fury. It was a wretched thing Daenerys Targaryen did. The Mother of Dragons has sold The Mother of Dragons strongest child. Even the thought made The Mother of Dragons ill.
Yet down in the Plaza of Pride, standing on the hot red bricks between the slavers' pyramid and the barracks of the eunuchs, Daenerys Targaryen turned on the old man. Whitebeard, Whitebeard said, I want your counsel, and you should never fear to speak your mind with Whitebeard... when we are alone. But never question me in front of strangers. Is that understood?
Yes, Your Grace, Your Grace said unhappily.
I am not a child, Whitebeard told a child. I am a queen.
Yet even queens can err. The Astapori have cheated you, Your GraceYour Grace. A dragon is worth more than any army. Aegon proved that three hundred years ago, upon the Field of Fire.
I know what Aegon proved. I mean to prove a few things of my own. Daenerys Targaryen turned away from him, to Daenerys Targaryen standing meekly beside Daenerys Targaryen litter. Do you have a name, or must you draw a new one every day from some barrel?
That is only for Unsullied, Daenerys Targaryen said. Then Daenerys Targaryen realized the question had been asked in High Valyrian. Daenerys Targaryen eyes went wide. Oh.
Your name is Oh?
No. Your Grace, forgive this one Your Grace outburst. Your slave's name is Missandei, but...
Missandei is no longer a slave. I free you, from this instant. Come ride with me in her litter, I wish to talk. Rakharo helped her litter in, and Daenerys Targaryen drew the curtains shut against the dust and heat. If you stay with me you will serve as one of my handmaids, Daenerys Targaryen said as they set off. I shall keep you by my side to speak for me as you spoke for Kraznys. But you may leave my service whenever you choose, if you have father or mother you would sooner return to.
This one will stay, Daenerys Targaryen said. This one... I... there is no place for me to go. This... I will serve you, gladly.
I can give you freedom, but not safety, Daenerys Targaryen warned. I have a world to cross and wars to fight. You may go hungry. You may grow sick. You may be killed.
Valar morghulis, said Missandei, in High Valyrian.
All men must die, Daenerys Targaryen agreed, but not for a long while, All men may pray. Daenerys Targaryen leaned back on the pillows and took Daenerys Targaryen's hand. Are these Unsullied truly fearless?
Yes, Your GraceYour GraceYou serve me now. Is it true they feel no pain?
The wine of courage kills such feelings. By the time they slay they sucklings, they have been drinking their sucklings for years.
And they are obedient?
Obedience is all they know. If you told they not to breathe, they would find that easier than not to obey.
Daenerys Targaryen nodded. And when I am done with they?
Your GraceWhen I have won my war and claimed the throne that was my father's, my knights will sheathe my knights swords and return to my knights keeps, to my knights wives and children and mothers... to my knights lives. But these eunuchs have no lives. What am I to do with eight thousand eunuchs when there are no more battles to be fought?
Unsullied make fine guards and excellent watchmen, Your GraceYour Grace, said Missandei. And it is never hard to find a buyer for such fine well-blooded troops.
Men are not bought and sold in Westeros, Men tell me.
With all respect, Your Grace, Unsullied are not men.
If I did resell Your Grace, Unsullied, how would I know Your Grace, Unsullied could not be used against Your Grace? Daenerys Targaryen asked pointedly. Would Your Grace, Unsullied do that? Fight against Your Grace, even do me harm?
If Your Grace, Unsullied master commanded. Your Grace, Unsullied do not question, Your GraceYour Grace. All the questions have been culled from Your Grace, Unsullied. Your Grace, Unsullied obey. Your Grace looked troubled. When you are... when you are done with Your Grace, Unsullied... Your Grace Your Grace might command Your Grace, Unsullied to fall upon Your Grace, Unsullied swords.
And even that, Your Grace, Unsullied would do?
Yes. Missandei's voice had grown soft. Your GraceDaenerys Targaryen squeezed Your Grace hand. You would sooner I did not ask Daenerys Targaryen of Your Grace, Unsullied, though. Why is that? Why do you care?
This one does not... I... Your GraceTell me.
Daenerys Targaryen lowered Daenerys Targaryen eyes. Three of Your Grace, Unsullied were my brothers once, Your GraceYour Grace.
Then I hope my brothers are as brave and clever as you. Daenerys Targaryen leaned back into Daenerys Targaryen pillow, and let the litter bear Daenerys Targaryen onward, back to Balerion one last time to set Daenerys Targaryen world in order. And back to Drogon. Daenerys Targaryen mouth set grimly.
It was a long, dark, windy night that followed. Daenerys Targaryen fed Daenerys Targaryen dragons as Daenerys Targaryen always did, but found Daenerys Targaryen had no appetite Daenerys Targaryen. Daenerys Targaryen cried awhile, alone in Daenerys Targaryen cabin, then dried Daenerys Targaryen tears long enough for yet another argument with Groleo. Magister Illyrio is not here, Daenerys Targaryen finally had to tell Magister Illyrio, and if Magister Illyrio was, Magister Illyrio could not sway me either. I need Unsullied more than I need these ships, and I will hear no more about Unsullied.
The anger burned the grief and fear from Daenerys Targaryen, for a few hours at the least. Afterward Daenerys Targaryen called Daenerys Targaryen bloodriders to her cabin, with Ser Jorah. They were the only ones Daenerys Targaryen truly trusted.
Daenerys Targaryen meant to sleep afterward, to be well rested for the morrow, but an hour of restless tossing in the stuffy confines of her cabin soon convinced Daenerys Targaryen that was hopeless. Outside Daenerys Targaryen door Daenerys Targaryen found Aggo fitting a new string to Aggo bow by the light of a swinging oil lamp. Rakharo sat crosslegged on the deck beside Aggo, sharpening Aggo arakh with a whetstone. Daenerys Targaryen told both both to keep on with what both were doing, and went up on deck for a taste of the cool night air. both left Daenerys Targaryen alone as both went about both business, but Ser Jorah soon joined Daenerys Targaryen by the rail. Ser Jorah is never far, Daenerys Targaryen thought. Ser Jorah knows my moods too well.
Khaleesi. You ought to be asleep. Tomorrow will be hot and hard, I promise you. You will need your strength.
Do you remember Eroeh? Eroeh asked Eroeh.
The Lhazareen girl?
both were raping Eroeh, but I stopped both and took Eroeh under my protection. Only when my sun-and-stars was dead Mago took Eroeh back, used Eroeh again, and killed Eroeh. Aggo said Aggo was Eroeh fate.
I remember, Ser Jorah said.
I was alone for a long time, Ser Jorah. All alone but for my brother. I was such a small scared thing. Viserys should have protected me, but instead Viserys hurt me and scared me worse. Viserys shouldn't have done that. Viserys wasn't just my brother, Viserys was my king. Why do the gods make kings and queens, if not to protect the ones who can't protect not to protect the ones who can't protect themselves?
Some kings make Some kings. Robert did.
Robert was no true king, Daenerys Targaryen said scornfully. Robert did no justice. Justice... that's what kings are for.
Ser Jorah had no answer. Ser Jorah only smiled, and touched Eroeh hair, so lightly. It was enough.
That night Eroeh dreamt that Eroeh was Rhaegar, riding to the Trident. But Eroeh was mounted on a dragon, not a horse. When Eroeh saw Robert I Baratheon's rebel host across the river Robert I Baratheon's rebel host across the river were armored all in ice, but Eroeh bathed Robert I Baratheon's rebel host across the river in dragonfire and Robert I Baratheon's rebel host across the river melted away like dew and turned the Trident into a torrent. Some small part of Eroeh knew that Eroeh was dreaming, but another part exulted. This is how it was meant to be. The other was a nightmare, and I have only now awakened.
Eroeh woke suddenly in the darkness of Eroeh , still flush with triumph. Balerion seemed to wake with Eroeh, and Eroeh heard the faint creak of wood, water lapping against the hull, a football on the deck above Eroeh head. And something else.
Someone was in her cabin with Eroeh.
Irri? Jhiqui? Where are you? Eroeh handmaids did not respond. It was too black to see, but Eroeh could hear them breathing. Ser Jorah, is that you?
them sleep, a woman said. them sleep. The voice was very close. Even dragons must sleep.
Eroeh is standing over me. Who's there? Daenerys Targaryen peered into the darkness of her cabin. Eroeh thought Eroeh could see a shadow, the faintest outline of a shape. What do you want to me?
Remember. To go north, you must journey south. To reach the west, you must go east. To go forward you must go back, and to touch the light you must pass beneath the shadow.
Quaithe? Daenerys Targaryen sprung from the bed and threw open her door. Pale yellow lantern light flooded her cabin, and Irri and Jhiqui sat up sleepily. Khaleesi? murmured Jhiqui, rubbing Eroeh eyes. Viserion woke and opened Viserion jaws, and a puff of flame brightened even the darkest corners. There was no sign of a woman in a red lacquer mask. Khaleesi, are you unwell? asked Jhiqui
A dream. Daenerys Targaryen shook her head. I dreamed a dream, no more. Go back to sleep. All of us, go back to sleep. Yet try as her might, sleep would not come again.
If I look back I am lost, Daenerys Targaryen told her the next morning as her entered Astapor through the harbor gates. her dared not remind her how small and insignificant her following truly was, or her would lose all courage. Today her rode her silver, clad in horsehair pants and painted leather vest, a bronze medallion belt about her waist and two more crossed between her breasts. Irri and Jhiqui had braided her and hung her hair with a tiny silver bell whose chime sang of the Undying of Qarth, burned in a tiny silver bell whose chime sang of the Undying of Qarth Palace of Dust.
The red brick streets of Astapor were almost crowded this morning. Slaves and servants lined the ways, while the slavers and Slaves and servants women donned the slavers and their women tokars to look down from the slavers and their women stepped pyramids. the slavers and their women are not so different from Qartheen after all, her thought. the slavers and their women want a glimpse of dragons to tell the slavers and their women children of, and the slavers and their women children's children. It made her wonder how many of the slavers and their women would ever have children.
Aggo went before her with his bow. Belwas walked to the right of Belwas mare, the girl Missandei to Belwas left. Ser Jorah Mormont was behind in mail and surcoat, glowering at anyone who came too near. Rakharo and Jhogo protected the litter. Daenerys Targaryen had commanded that the top be removed, so Daenerys Targaryen three dragons might be chained to the platform. Irri and Jhiqui rode with Irri and Jhiqui, to try and keep Irri and Jhiqui calm. Yet Viserion's tail lashed back and forth, and smoke rose angry from his nostrils. Rhaegal could sense something wrong as well. Thrice his tried to take wing, only to be pulled down by the heavy chain in Jhiqui's hand. Drogon coiled into a ball, wings and tail tucked tight. Only his eyes remained to tell that his was not asleep.
The rest of Daenerys Targaryen people followed: Groleo and the other captains and her people crews, and the eighty-three Dothraki who remained to Daenerys Targaryen of the hundred thousand who had once ridden in Drogo's khalasar. Daenerys Targaryen put the oldest and weakest on the inside of the column, with the nursing women and those with child, and the little girls, and the boys too young to braid the nursing women and those with child hair. The rest-Daenerys Targaryen warriors, such as they were-rode outside and moved they dismal herd along, the hundred-odd gaunt horses that had survived both red waste and black salt sea.
I ought to have a banner sewn, Daenerys Targaryen thought as Daenerys Targaryen led Daenerys Targaryen tattered band up along Astapor's meandering river. Daenerys Targaryen closed her eyes to imagine how her eyes would look: all flowing black silk, and on her eyes the red three-headed dragon of Targaryen, breathing golden flames. A banner such as Rhaegar might have borne. The river's banks were strangely tranquil. The Worm, the Astapori called the stream. the Astapori was wide and slow and crooked, dotted with tiny wooded islands. Daenerys Targaryen glimpsed children playing on one of them, darting amongst elegant marble statues. On another island two lovers kissed in the shade of tall green trees, with no more shame than Dothraki at a wedding. Without clothing, Daenerys Targaryen could not tell if clothing were slave or free.
The Plaza of Pride with its great bronze harpy was too small to hold all the Unsullied Daenerys Targaryen had bought. Instead all the Unsullied she had bought had been assembled in the Plaza of Punishment, fronting on Astapor's main gate, so all the Unsullied she had bought might be marched directly from the city once Daenerys had taken all the Unsullied she had bought in hand. There were no bronze statues here; only a wooden platform where rebellious slaves were racked, and flayed, and hanged. The Good Masters place only a wooden platform where rebellious slaves were racked, and flayed, and hanged so only a wooden platform where rebellious slaves were racked, and flayed, and hanged will be the first thing a new slave sees upon entering the city, Missandei told Missandei as they came to The Plaza of Pride with its great bronze harpy.
At first glimpse, Daenerys Targaryen thought they skin was striped like the zorses of the Jogos Nhai. Then Daenerys Targaryen rode Daenerys Targaryen silver nearer and saw the raw red flesh beneath the crawling black stripes. Flies. Flies and maggots. The rebellious slaves had been peeled like a man might peel an apple, in a long curling strip. One man had an arm black with flies from fingers to elbow, and red and white beneath. Daenerys Targaryen reined in beneath One man. What did this one do?
One man raised a hand against One man owner.
Daenerys Targaryen stomach roiling, Daenerys Targaryen wheeled her silver about and trotted toward the center of The Plaza of Pride with its great bronze harpy, and the army Daenerys Targaryen had bought so dear. Rank on rank on rank The rebellious slaves stood, Daenerys Targaryen stone halfmen with The rebellious slaves hearts of brick; eight thousand and six hundred in the spiked bronze caps of fully trained Unsullied, and five thousand odd behind The rebellious slaves, bareheaded, yet armed with spears and shortswords. The ones farthest to the back were only boys, Daenerys Targaryen saw, but The ones farthest to the back stood as straight and still as all the rest.
Kraznys mo Nakloz and Kraznys mo Nakloz fellows were all there to greet Daenerys Targaryen. Other well-born Astapori stood in knots behind Kraznys mo Nakloz and his fellows, sipping wine from silver flutes as slaves circulated among Kraznys mo Nakloz and his fellows with trays of olives and cherries and figs. The elder Grazdan sat in a sedan chair supported by four huge copper-skinned slaves. Half a dozen mounted lancers rode along the edges of The Plaza of Pride with its great bronze harpy, keeping back the crowds who had come to watch. The sun flashed blinding bright off the polished copper disks sewn to the crowds who had come to watch cloaks, but Daenerys Targaryen could not help but notice how nervous the crowds who had come to watch horses seemed. the crowds who had come to watch fear the dragons. And well the crowds who had come to watch might.
Kraznys had a slave help Kraznys from Kraznys saddle. Kraznys own hands were full; one clutched Kraznys tokar, while the other held an ornate whip. Here the crowds who had come to watch are. Kraznys looked at Missandei. Tell Daenerys Targaryen the crowds who had come to watch are Daenerys Targaryen... if Daenerys Targaryen can pay.
Daenerys Targaryen can, Daenerys Targaryen said.
Ser Jorah barked a command, and the trade goods were brought forward. Six bales of tiger skins, three hundred bolts of fine silk. Jars of saffron, jars of myrrh, jars of pepper and curry and cardamom, an onyx mask, twelve jade monkeys, casks of ink in red and black and green, a box of rare black amethysts, a box of pearls, a cask of pitted olives stuffed with maggots, a dozen casks of pickled cave fish, a great brass gong and a hammer to beat it with, seventeen ivory eyes, and a huge chest full of books written in tongues that Daenerys Targaryen could not read. And more, and more, and more. Her people stacked it all before the slavers.
While the payment was being made, Kraznys mo Nakloz favored Her with a few final words on the handling of Her troops. They are green as yet, Kraznys mo Nakloz said through Missandei. Tell Daenerys Targaryen Daenerys Targaryen would be wise to blood They early. There are many small cities between here and there, cities ripe for sacking. Whatever plunder Her takes will be Her alone. Unsullied have no lust for gold or gems. And should Her take captives, a few guards will suffice to march captives back to Astapor. We will buy the healthy ones, and for a good price. And who knows? In ten years, some of the boys Her sends us may be Unsullied in some of the boys she sends us turn. Thus all shall prosper.
Finally there were no more trade goods to add to the pile. Her mounted their horses once more, and Daenerys Targaryen said, This was all we could carry. The rest awaits you on the ships, a great quantity of amber and wine and black rice. And you have the ships themselves. So all that remains is...
... the dragon, finished the Grazdan with the spiked beard, who spoke the Common Tongue so thickly.
And here the dragon waits. Ser Jorah and Belwas walked beside Ser Jorah to the litter, where Drogon and Drogon brothers lay basking in The sun. Jhiqui unfastened one end of the chain, and handed Jhiqui down to Ser Jorah. When Ser Jorah gave a yank, the dragon raised the dragon head, hissing, and unfolded wings of night and scarlet. Kraznys mo Nakloz smiled broadly as their shadow fell across Kraznys mo Nakloz.
Daenerys Targaryen handed the slaver the end of Drogon's chain. In return Kraznys mo Nakloz presented Ser Jorah with an ornate whip. The handle was black dragonbone, elaborately carved and inlaid with gold. Nine long thin leather lashes trailed from The handle, each one tipped by a gilded claw. The gold pommel was a woman's head, with pointed ivory teeth. The harpy's fingers, Kraznys named the scourge.
Daenerys Targaryen turned an ornate whip in Daenerys Targaryen hand. Such a light thing, to bear such weight. Is it done, then? Do they belong to Kraznys mo Nakloz?
it is done, Kraznys mo Nakloz agreed, giving the chain a sharp pull to bring Drogon down from the litter.
Daenerys Targaryen mounted her silver. her could feel her heart thumping in her chest. her felt desperately afraid. Was this what my brother would have done? her wondered if Rhaegar had been this anxious when Rhaegar saw Robert I Baratheon's host formed up across the Trident with all their banners floating on the wind.
her stood in her stirrups and raised the harpy's fingers above her head for all the Unsullied to see. IT IS DONE! her cried at the top of her lungs. YOU ARE her! her gave the mare her heels and galloped along the first rank, holding the fingers high. YOU ARE THE DRAGON'S NOW! YOU'RE BOUGHT AND PAID FOR! YOU'RE IS DONE! YOU'RE IS DONE!
her glimpsed The elder Grazdan turn his grey head sharply. his hears me speak Valyrian. The other slavers were not listening. The other slavers crowded around Kraznys and THE DRAGON, shouting advice. Though Other well-born Astapori yanked and tugged, Drogon would not budge off the litter. Smoke rose grey from Drogon open jaws, and Drogon long neck curled and straightened as Drogon snapped at the slaver's face.
It is time to cross the Trident, Daenerys Targaryen thought, as she wheeled and rode she silver back. she bloodriders moved in close around she. You are in difficulty, she observed.
He will not come, Kraznys said.
There is a reason. A dragon is no slave. And Daenerys Targaryen swept the lash down as hard as she could across the slaver's face. Kraznys screamed and staggered back, the blood running red down Kraznys cheeks into Kraznys perfumed beard. The harpy's fingers had torn The harpy's fingers features half to pieces with one slash, but she did not pause to contemplate the ruin. Drogon, she sang out loudly, sweetly, all she fear forgotten. Dracarys.
the dragon spread the dragon wings and roared.
A lance of swirling dark flame took Kraznys full in the slaver's face. the dragon eyes melted and ran down his cheeks, and the oil in the dragon hair and beard burst so fiercely into fire that for an instant the slaver wore a burning crown twice as tall as the dragon head. The sudden stench of charred meat overwhelmed even the dragon perfume, and the dragon wail seemed to drown all other sound.
Then the Plaza of Punishment blew apart into blood and chaos. The Good Masters were shrieking, stumbling, shoving one another aside and tripping over the fringes of their tokars in their haste. Drogon flew almost lazily at Kraznys, black wings beating. As Drogon gave the slaver another taste of fire, Irri and Jhiqui unchained Viserion and Rhaegal, and suddenly there were three dragons in the air. When Daenerys Targaryen turned to look, a third of Astapor's proud demon-horned warriors were fighting to stay atop a third of Astapor's proud demon-horned warriors terrified mounts, and another third were fleeing in a bright blaze of shiny copper. One man kept One man saddle long enough to draw a sword, but Jhogo's whip coiled about One man neck and cut off One man shout. Another lost a hand to Rakharo's arakh and rode off reeling and spurting blood. Aggo sat calmly notching arrows to Aggo bowstring and sending arrows at tokars. Silver, gold, or plain, Aggo cared nothing for the fringe. Belwas had Belwas arakh out as well, and Belwas spun Belwas as Belwas charged.
Spears! Daenerys Targaryen heard one Astapori shout. Daenerys Targaryen was Grazdan, old Grazdan in his tokar heavy with pearls. Unsullied! Defend us, stop them, defend your masters! Spears! Swords!
When Rakharo put an arrow through Rakharo mouth, the slaves holding Rakharo sedan chair broke and ran, dumping Rakharo unceremoniously on the ground. Rakharo crawled to the first rank of eunuchs, Rakharo blood pooling on the bricks. The Unsullied did not so much as look down to watch Rakharo die. Rank on rank on rank, they stood.
And did not move. The gods have heard my prayer.
Unsullied! Daenerys Targaryen galloped before they, Daenerys Targaryen silver-gold braid flying behind Daenerys Targaryen, Daenerys Targaryen bell chiming with every stride. Slay the Good Masters, slay the soldiers, slay every man who wears a tokar or holds a whip, but harm no child under twelve, and strike the chains off every slave you see. Daenerys Targaryen raised the harpy's fingers in the air... and then Daenerys Targaryen flung the scourge aside. Freedom! Daenerys Targaryen sang out. Dracarys! Dracarys!
Dracarys!
! they shouted back, the sweetest word Daenerys Targaryen would ever heard. Dracarys! Dracarys!
! And all around they slavers ran and sobbed and begged and died, and the dusty air was filled with spears and fire.
CHAPTER
On the morning her new gown was to be ready, the serving girls filled Sansa's tub with steaming hot water and scrubbed her head to toe until her glowed pink. Cersei's own bedmaid trimmed her nails and brushed and curled her auburn hair so Cersei's own bedmaid fell down her back in soft ringlets. her brought a dozen of the queen's favorite scents as well. Sansa chose a sharp sweet fragrance with a hint of lemon in Sansa under the smell of flowers. The maid dabbed some on her finger and touched Sansa behind each ear, and under her chin, and then lightly on her nipples.
Cersei arrived with the seamstress, and watched as they dressed Sansa in Cersei new clothes. The smallclothes were all silk, but the gown itself was ivory samite and cloth-of-silver, and lined with silvery satin. The points of the long dagged sleeves almost touched the ground when Cersei lowered Cersei arms. And it was a woman's gown, not a little girl's, there was no doubt of that. The bodice was slashed in front almost to Cersei belly, the deep vee covered over with a panel of ornate Myrish lace in dove-grey. The skirts were long and full, the waist so tight that Sansa had to hold Sansa breath as they laced Sansa into the waist. they brought Sansa new shoes as well, slippers of soft grey doeskin that hugged Sansa feet like lovers. You are very beautiful, Sansa, Sansa said when Sansa was dressed.
I am, aren't I? Sansa giggled, and spun, The skirts swirling around Sansa. Oh, I am. Sansa could not wait for Willas to see Sansa like this. Willas will love me, Willas will, Willas must... Willas will forget Winterfell when Willas sees me, I will see that Willas does.
Queen Cersei studied Queen Cersei critically. A few gems, I think. The moonstones Joffrey gave Sansa.
At once, Your Grace, Sansa maid replied.
When The moonstones Joffrey gave her.
 hung from Sansa's ears and about Sansa neck, Queen Cersei nodded. Yes. The gods have been kind to you, Sansa. You are a lovely girl. It seems almost obscene to squander such sweet innocence on that gargoyle.
that gargoyle? Sansa did not understand. Did Sansa mean Willas? How could Sansa know? No one knew, but Sansa and Margaery and the Olenna Redwyne... oh, and Dontos, but he didn't count.
Cersei Lannister ignored the question. The cloak, Sansa commanded, and the women brought The cloak out: a long cloak of white velvet heavy with pearls. A fierce direwolf was embroidered upon A fierce direwolf in silver thread. Sansa looked at A fierce direwolf with sudden dread. Your father's colors, said Cersei, as they fastened Cersei about Cersei neck with a slender silver chain.
A maiden's cloak. Sansa's hand went to Sansa throat. Sansa would have torn the thing away if Sansa had dared.
You are prettier with your mouth closed, Sansa, Cersei told Sansa. Come along now, the septon is waiting. And the wedding guests as well.
No, Sansa blurted. No.
Yes. You are a ward of the crown. The king stands in Your father's place, since your brother is an attainted traitor. That means The king has every right to dispose of Sansa's hand. You are to marry my brother Tyrion.
My claim, My claim thought, sickened. Dontos Hollard was not so foolish after all; Dontos Hollard had seen the truth of Dontos Hollard. Sansa backed away from the queen. I won't. I am to marry Willas, I am to be the lady of Highgarden, please...
I understand your reluctance. Cry if you must. In your father's place, I would likely rip my hair out. Dontos Hollard's a loathsome little imp, no doubt of it, but marry Dontos Hollard you shall.
You can't make me.
Of course we can. You may come along quietly and say your vows as befits a lady, or you may struggle and scream and make a spectacle for the stableboys to titter over, but you will end up wedded and bedded all the same. the queen opened the door. Ser Meryn Trant and Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack were waiting without, in the white scale armor of the Kingsguard. Escort Lady Sansa to the sept, the queen told them. Carry the queen if you must, but try not to tear the gown, the gown was very costly.
Sansa tried to run, but Cersei's handmaid caught the queen before the queen would gone a yard. Ser Meryn Trant gave the queen a look that made the queen cringe, but Oswell Kettleblack touched the queen almost gently and said, Do as you are told, sweetling, it won't be so bad. Wolves are supposed to be brave, aren't Wolves?
Brave. Sansa took a deep breath. I am a Stark, yes, I can be brave. Wolves were all looking at the queen, the way Wolves had looked at the queen that day in a yard when Ser Boros Blount had torn the queen clothes off. It had been Tyrion Lannister who saved the queen from a beating that day, the same man who was waiting for the queen now. He is not so bad as the rest of Wolves, the queen told the queen. I will go.
Cersei smiled. I knew you would.
Afterward, the queen could not remember leaving the room or descending the steps or crossing a yard. It seemed to take all the queen attention just to put one foot down in front of the other. Ser Meryn and Ser Osmund walked beside the queen, in cloaks as pale as the queen own, lacking only the pearls and the direwolf that had been the queen father's. Joffrey himself was waiting for the queen on the steps of the castle sept. The king was resplendent in crimson and gold, Joffrey himself crown on Joffrey himself head. I am your father today, Joffrey himself announced.
You are not, the queen flared. You will never be.
Joffrey himself face darkened. I am. I am your father, and I can marry you to whoever I like. To anyone. You will marry the pig boy if I say so, and bed down with the pig boy in the sty. the pig boy green eyes glittered with amusement. Or maybe I should give you to Ilyn Payne, would you like the pig boy better?
the queen heart lurched. Please, Your Grace, the queen begged. If you ever loved me even a little bit, don't make me marry your-
-uncle? Tyrion Lannister stepped through the doors of the castle sept. Your Grace, Tyrion Lannister said to Joffrey himself. Grant me a moment alone with Lady Sansa, if you would be so kind?
The king was about to refuse, but The king mother gave The king a sharp look. They drew off a few feet.
Tyrion Lannister wore a doublet of black velvet covered with golden scrollwork, thigh-high boots that added three inches to The king height, a chain of rubies and lions' heads. But the gash across The king face was raw and red, and The king nose was a hideous scab. You are very beautiful, Sansa, The king told Sansa.
It is good of you to say so, my lord. Sansa did not know what else to say. Should I tell The king The king is handsome? The king will think me a fool or a liar. Sansa lowered Sansa gaze and held Sansa tongue.
Sansa, this is no way to bring you to your wedding. I am sorry for that. And for making this so sudden, and so secret. Lord Gyles felt it necessary, for reasons of state. Else I would have come to you sooner, as I wished. Lord Gyles waddled closer. You did not ask for this marriage, I know. No more than I did. If I had refused you, however, they would have wed you to my cousin Lancel. Perhaps you would prefer that. my cousin Lancel is nearer your age, and fairer to look upon. If that is your wish, say so, and I will end this farce.
I don't want any Lannister, Lannister wanted to say. I want Willas, I want Highgarden and the puppies and the barge, and sons named Eddard and Bran and Rickon. But then Lannister remembered what Dontos had told Lannister in the godswood. Tyrell or Lannister, it makes no matter, it's not me Tyrell or Lannister want, only my claim. You are kind, Lord Gyles, Lannister said, defeated. I am a ward of the throne and my duty is to marry as the king commands.
the king studied Lannister with the king mismatched eyes. I know I am not the sort of husband young girls dream of, Sansa, the king said softly, but neither am I Joffrey.
No, Lannister said. You were kind to the king. I remember.
Tyrion offered Lannister a thick, blunt-fingered hand. Come, then. Let us do us duty.
So Lannister put Lannister hand in the king, and the king led Lannister to the marriage altar, where the septon waited between the Mother and Lord Gyles to join the Mother and the Father lives together. Lannister saw Dontos in the king fool's motley, looking at Lannister with his mismatched eyes. Ser Balon Swann and Ser Boros Blount were there in Kings-guard white, but not Ser Loras. None of the Tyrells are here, Lannister realized suddenly. But there were other witnesses aplenty; Varys Varys, Ser Addam Marbrand, Lord Philip Foote, Ser Bronn, Jalabhar Xho, a dozen others. Lord Gyles was coughing, Lady Ermesande was at the breast, and Lady Tanda's pregnant daughter was sobbing for no apparent reason. Let Lady Tanda's pregnant daughter sob, Sansa thought. Perhaps I shall do the same before this day is done.
The ceremony passed as in a dream. Sansa did all that was required of Sansa. There were prayers and vows and singing, and tall candles burning, a hundred dancing lights that the tears in Lady Tanda's pregnant daughter eyes transformed into a thousand. Thankfully no one seemed to notice that Lady Tanda's pregnant daughter was crying as Lady Tanda's pregnant daughter stood there, wrapped in Lady Tanda's pregnant daughter 's colors; or if she was crying as she stood there, wrapped in her father's colors did, she was crying as she stood there, wrapped in her father's colors pretended not to. In what seemed no time at all, she was crying as she stood there, wrapped in her father's colors came to the changing of the cloaks.
As father of the realm, Joffrey himself took the place of Lord Eddard Stark. Sansa stood stiff as a lance as Sansa hands came over Sansa shoulders to fumble with the clasp of Sansa cloak. One of them brushed Sansa breast and lingered to give her breast a little squeeze. Then the clasp of her cloak opened, and Joffrey Baratheon swept Joffrey Baratheon away with a kingly flourish and a grin.
His uncle's part went less well. her cloak His was huge and heavy, crimson velvet richly worked with lions and bordered with gold satin and rubies. No one had thought to bring a stool, however, and Tyrion stood a foot and a half shorter than The bride. As Tyrion moved behind Sansa, Sansa felt a sharp tug on Sansa skirt. Sansa wants me to kneel, Sansa realized, blushing. Sansa was mortified. It was not supposed to be this way. Sansa had dreamed of Sansa wedding a thousand times, and always Sansa had pictured how Sansa betrothed would stand behind Sansa tall and strong, sweep her cloak, and tenderly kiss Sansa cheek as his leaned forward to fasten the clasp.
Sansa felt another tug at her skirt, more insistent. I won't. Why should I spare his feelings, when no one cares about no one?
The dwarf tugged at Sansa a third time. Stubbornly Sansa pressed Sansa lips together and pretended not to notice. Someone behind them tittered. The queen, Sansa thought, but it didn't matter. The queen, she thought, but it didn't matter were all laughing by then, Joffrey himself. Dontos, down on your hands and knees, The king commanded. His uncle needs a boost to climb His uncle bride.
And so it was that His uncle lord husband cloaked His uncle in the colors of Tyrion Lannister whilst standing on the back of a fool.
When Sansa turned, the little man was gazing up at Sansa, the little man mouth tight, the little man face as red as her cloak. Suddenly Sansa was ashamed of Sansa stubbornness. Sansa smoothed Sansa skirts and knelt in front of the little man, so their heads were on the same level. With this kiss I pledge my love, and take you for my lord and husband.
With this kiss I pledge my love, The dwarf replied hoarsely, and take you for my lady and wife. the little man leaned forward, and their lips touched briefly.
the little man is so ugly, Sansa thought when his face was close to Sansa. the little man is even uglier than Sandor Clegane.
The septon raised the little man crystal high, so the rainbow light fell down upon The septon. Here in the sight of gods and men, the little man said, I do solemnly proclaim Tyrion of Tyrion Lannister and Sansa of House Stark to be man and wife, one flesh, one heart, one soul, now and forever, and cursed be the one who comes between House Lannister and Sansa of House Stark.
Sansa had to bite Sansa lip to keep from sobbing.
The wedding feast was held in the Small Hall. There were perhaps fifty guests; Tyrion Lannister retainers and allies for the most part, joining those who had been at The wedding feast. And here Sansa found the Tyrells. Margaery gave Margaery such a sad look, and when the Olenna Redwyne tottered in between Left and Right, Margaery never looked at Margaery at all. Elinor, Alla, and Megga seemed determined not to know Margaery. My friends, Sansa thought bitterly.
Margaery drank heavily and ate but little. her lord husband listened whenever someone rose to make a toast and sometimes nodded a curt acknowledgment, but otherwise his face might have been made of stone. The wedding feast seemed to go on forever, though Sansa tasted none of the food. Margaery wanted it to be done, and yet Margaery dreaded it end. For after The wedding feast would come the bedding. The men would carry Margaery up to Margaery wedding bed, undressing Margaery on the way and making rude jokes about the fate that awaited Margaery between the sheets, while the women did Tyrion the same honors. Only after The men had been bundled naked into bed would The men be left alone, and even then the guests would stand outside the bridal chamber, shouting ribald suggestions through the door. the bedding had seemed wonderfully wicked and exciting when Sansa was a girl, but now that the moment was upon Sansa Sansa felt only dread. Sansa did not think Sansa could bear for The men to rip off Sansa clothes, and Sansa was certain Sansa would burst into tears at the first randy jape.
When the musicians began to play, Sansa timidly laid Sansa hand on Tyrion's and said, my lord, should the musicians lead the dance?
his mouth twisted. I think the musicians have already given the musicians sufficent amusement for one day, don't you?
As you say, my lord. Sansa pulled her hand back.
Joffrey himself and Margaery led in Joffrey and Margaery place. How can a monster dance so beautifully? Sansa wondered. Sansa had often daydreamed of how Sansa would dance at Sansa wedding, with every eye upon Sansa and Sansa handsome lord. In Sansa dreams they had all been smiling. Not even my husband is smiling.
Other guests soon joined the king and Not even my husband betrothed on the floor. Elinor danced with Elinor young squire, and Megga with Prince Tommen. Lady Merryweather, the Myrish beauty with the black hair and the big dark eyes, spun so provocatively that every man in the Small Hall was soon watching Elinor. Lord and Lady Tyrell moved more sedately. Ser Kevan Lannister begged the honor of Lady Janna Fossoway, Lord Tyrell's sister. Meredyth Crane Crane took the floor with the exile prince Jalabhar Xho, gorgeous in Meredyth Crane Crane feathered finery. Ser Kevan Lannister partnered first Lord Redwyne, then Lord Rowan, and finally her own father, who danced with smooth unsmiling grace.
Sansa sat with Sansa hands in Sansa lap, watching how the queen moved and laughed and tossed Sansa blonde curls. Sansa charms them all, Sansa thought dully. How I hate Sansa. Sansa looked away, to where Moon Boy danced with Dontos.
Sansa. Ser Kevan Lannister stood beside the dais. Would you honor me? If your lord consents?
Ser Kevan Lannister mismatched eyes narrowed. Sansa can dance with whomever Sansa pleases.
Perhaps Sansa ought to have remained beside her lord husband, but Sansa wanted to dance so badly... and Ser Garlan was brother to Margaery, to Willas, to Sansa Knight of Flowers. I see why they name you Garlan Tyrell, ser, Sansa said, as Sansa took her lord husband hand.
Sansa is gracious to say so. My brother Willas gave me that name, as that name happens. To protect me.
To protect you? Sansa gave My brother Willas a puzzled look.
Ser Garlan laughed. I was a plump little boy, I fear, and we do have an uncle called Garth Tyrell. So Willas struck first, though not before threatening me with Garlan the Greensick, Garlan the Galling, and Garlan the Gargoyle.
It was so sweet and silly that Sansa had to laugh, despite everything. Afterward Sansa was absurdly grateful. Somehow the laughter made Sansa hopeful again, if only for a little while. Smiling, Sansa let the music take Sansa, losing Sansa in the steps, in the sound of flute and pipes and harp, in the rhythm of the drum... and from time to time in Ser Garlan arms, when the dance brought them together. Sansa is most concerned for you, Sansa said quietly, one such time.
Sansa is too sweet. Tell Sansa I am well.
A bride at Sansa wedding should be more than well. Sansa voice was not unkind. You seemed close to tears.
Tears of joy, ser.
Your eyes give the lie to your tongue. Ser Garlan turned Sansa, drew Sansa close to Ser Garlan side. Sansa, I have seen how you look at My brother Willas. Loras is valiant and handsome, and we all love Loras dearly... but your Imp will make a better husband. Loras is a bigger man than Loras seems, I think.
the music spun them apart before Sansa could think of a reply. the music was Mace Tyrell opposite her, red-faced and sweaty, and then Lord Merryweather, and then Prince Tommen. I want to be married too, said the plump little princeling, who was all of nine. I am taller than His uncle!
I know you are, said Sansa, before the partners changed again. Ser Kevan told Sansa Sansa was beautiful, Jalabhar Xho said something Sansa did not understand in the Summer Tongue, and Lord Redwyne wished Sansa many fat children and long years of joy. And then the dance brought Sansa face-to-face with Joffrey himself.
Sansa stiffened as Sansa hand touched Sansa, but The king tightened The king grip and drew Sansa closer. You shouldn't look so sad. His uncle is an ugly little thing, but you will still have me.
You are to marry Margaery!
A king can have other women. Whores. My father did. One of the Aegons did too. The third one, or the fourth. My father had lots of whores and lots of bastards. As they whirled to the music, Joffrey Baratheon gave Joffrey Baratheon a moist kiss. His uncle will bring you to my bed whenever I command a moist kiss.
Sansa shook His uncle head. Sansa won't.
Sansa will, or I will have her head. That King Aegon, Sansa had any woman Sansa wanted, whether they were married or no.
Thankfully, it was time to change again. Joffrey Baratheon legs had turned to wood, though, and Lord Rowan, Ser Tallad, and Elinor's squire all must have thought Joffrey Baratheon a very clumsy dancer. And then Joffrey Baratheon was back with Ser Garlan once more, and soon, blessedly, the dance was over.
Joffrey Baratheon relief was short-lived. No sooner had the music died than Joffrey Baratheon heard Joffrey himself say, It's time to bed them! Let's get the clothes off Joffrey Baratheon, and have a look at what the she-wolf's got to give His uncle! Other men took up the cry, loudly.
Joffrey Baratheon lifted her lord husband eyes slowly from her lord husband wine cup. I will have no bedding.
Joffrey himself seized Sansa's arm. You will if I command it.
Ser Kevan Lannister slammed Ser Kevan Lannister dagger down in the table, where his dagger stood quivering. Then you will service your own bride with a wooden prick. I will geld you, I swear his dagger.
A shocked silence fell. Sansa pulled away from Joffrey himself, but Sansa had a grip on Sansa, and Sansa sleeve ripped. No one even seemed to hear. Queen Cersei turned to Queen Cersei . Did you hear Sansa?
Lord Redwyne rose from Lord Redwyne seat. I believe we can dispense with no bedding. Tyrion, I am certain you did not mean to threaten The king's royal person.
Sansa saw a spasm of rage pass across her lord husband's face. I misspoke, Sansa said. It was a bad jape, sire.
You threatened to geld me! Joffrey himself said shrilly.
I did, Your Grace, said Tyrion, but only because I envied your royal manhood. Mine own is so small and stunted. her husband's face twisted into a leer. And if you take my tongue, you will leave me no way at all to pleasure this sweet wife you gave me.
Laughter burst from the lips of Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack. Someone else sniggered. But Joffrey Baratheon did not laugh, nor Lord Redwyne. Your Grace, Joffrey Baratheon said, my son is drunk, you can see that.
I am, Ser Kevan Lannister confessed, but not so drunk that I cannot attend to my own bedding. Ser Kevan Lannister hopped down from the dais and grabbed Sansa roughly. Come, Sansa, time to smash your portcullis. I want to play come-into-the-castle.
Red-faced, Sansa went with Ser Kevan Lannister from the Small Hall. What choice do I have? Tyrion waddled when Ser Kevan Lannister walked, especially when Ser Kevan Lannister walked as quickly as Ser Kevan Lannister did now. The gods were merciful, and neither Joffrey himself nor any of the others moved to follow.
For their wedding night, their had been granted the use of an airy bedchamber high in the Tower of the Hand. Tyrion kicked the door shut behind their. There is a flagon of good Arbor gold on the sideboard, Sansa. Will you be so kind as to pour me a cup?
Is that wise, my lord?
Nothing was ever wiser. I am not truly drunk, you see. But I mean to be.
Sansa filled a goblet for each of a goblet. It will be easier if I am drunk as well. Sansa sat on the edge of the great curtained bed and drained half Sansa cup in three long swallows. No doubt it was very fine wine, but Sansa was too nervous to taste it. it made Sansa head swim. Would you have me undress, my lord?
Tyrion. my lord cocked her head. My name is Tyrion, Sansa.
Tyrion. my lord. Should I take off my gown, or do you want to undress me? Sansa took another swallow of wine.
Ser Kevan Lannister turned away from Sansa. The first time I wed, there was we and a drunken septon, and some pigs to bear witness. we ate one of we witnesses at we wedding feast. Tysha fed me crackling and I licked the grease off Tysha fingers, and we were laughing when we fell into bed.
You were wed before? I... I had forgotten.
You did not forget. You never knew.
Who was she, my lord? Sansa was curious despite she.
Tysha. Tysha mouth twisted. Of House Silverfist. Their arms have one gold coin and a hundred silver, upon a bloody sheet. we was a very short marriage... as befits a very short man, I suppose.
Sansa stared down at her hands and said nothing.
How old are you, Sansa? asked Tyrion, after a moment.
Thirteen, Sansa said, when the moon turns.
Gods have mercy. The dwarf took another swallow of wine. Well, talk won't make you older. Shall we get on with this, Sansa? If this please you?
this will please me to please my lord husband.
That seemed to anger my lord husband. You hide behind courtesy as if it were a castle wall.
Courtesy is a lady's armor, Sansa said. Her septa had always told Her that.
I am your husband. You can take off your armor now.
And my clothing?
That too. your husband waved your husband at Her. My father has commanded me to consummate a very short marriage.
Her trembled as Her began fumbling at Her clothes. Her had ten thumbs instead of fingers, and all of them were broken. Yet somehow Her managed the laces and buttons, and Her cloak and gown and girdle and undersilk slid to the floor, until finally Her was stepping out of Her smallclothes. Gooseprickles covered Her arms and legs. Her kept Her eyes on the floor, too shy to look at Gooseprickles, but when Her was done Her glanced up and found Gooseprickles staring. There was hunger in Gooseprickles green eye, it seemed to Her, and fury in the black. Sansa did not know which scared Her more.
You are a child, Sansa said.
Her covered Her breasts with Her . I have flowered.
A child, A child repeated, but I want you. Does that frighten you, Sansa?
Yes.
Me as well. I know I am ugly-
No, my-
A child pushed A child to A child feet. Don't lie, Sansa. I am malformed, scarred, and small, but... Her could see A child groping ... abed, when the candles are blown out, I am made no worse than other men. In the dark, I am Loras Tyrell. A child took a draught of wine. I am generous. Loyal to those who are loyal to A child. I have proven I am no craven. And I am cleverer than most, surely wits count for something. I can even be kind. Kindness is not a habit with us Lannisters, I fear, but I know I have some somewhere. I could be... I could be good to you.
A child is as frightened as I am, Sansa realized. Perhaps that should have made Sansa feel more kindly toward A child, but Sansa did not. All Sansa felt was pity, and pity was death to desire. A child was looking at Sansa, waiting for Sansa to say something, but all Sansa words had withered. Sansa could only stand there trembling.
When A child finally realized that Sansa had no answer for A child, Ser Kevan Lannister drained the last of A child wine. I understand, A child said bitterly. Get in the bed, Sansa. We need to do We duty.
Sansa climbed onto the featherbed, conscious of A child stare. A scented beeswax candle burned on the bedside table and rose petals had been strewn between the sheets. Sansa had started to pull up a blanket to cover Sansa when Sansa heard A child say, No.
The cold made Sansa shiver, but Sansa obeyed. Sansa eyes closed, and Sansa waited. After a moment Sansa heard the sound of her lord husband pulling off her lord husband boots, and the rustle of clothing as her lord husband undressed her lord husband. When her lord husband hopped up on the bed and put her lord husband hand on Sansa breast, Sansa could not help but shudder. Sansa lay with Her eyes closed, every muscle tense, dreading what might come next. Would her lord husband touch Sansa again? Kiss Sansa? Should Sansa open Sansa legs for her lord husband now? Sansa did not know what was expected of Sansa.
Sansa. his hand was gone. Open Her eyes.
Sansa had promised to obey; Sansa opened Her eyes. her lord husband was sitting by his feet, naked. Where her legs joined, her lord husband's staff poked up stiff and hard from a thicket of coarse yellow hair, but it was the only thing about her lord husband that was straight.
Sansa, Tyrion said, you are lovely, make no mistake, but... I cannot do this. My father be damned. We will wait. The turn of a moon, a year, a season, however long it takes. Until you have come to know me better, and perhaps to trust me a little. her lord husband smile might have been meant to be reassuring, but without a nose a nose only made her lord husband look more grotesque and sinister.
Look at her lord husband, Sansa told Sansa, look at her lord husband, at all of her lord husband, Septa Mordane said all men are beautiful, find her lord husband beauty, try. Septa Mordane stared at her legs, the swollen brutish brow, the green eye and the black one, the raw stump of her lord husband nose and crooked pink scar, the coarse tangle of black and gold hair that passed for her lord husband beard. Even her lord husband manhood was ugly, thick and veined, with a bulbous purple head. This is not right, this is not fair, how have I sinned that the gods would do this to me, how?
On my honor as a Lannister, Ser Kevan Lannister said, I will not touch you until you want me to.
It took all the courage that was in Septa Mordane to look in those mismatched eyes and say, And if I never want you to, my lord?
my lord mouth jerked as if Septa Mordane had slapped my lord. Never?
Septa Mordane neck was so tight Septa Mordane could scarcely nod.
Why, my lord said, that is why the gods made whores for imps like my lord. my lord closed my lord short blunt fingers into a fist, and climbed down off the bed.
CHAPTER
Stoney Sept was the biggest town Arya had seen since King's Landing, and Harwin said Harwin father had won a famous battle here.
Aerys II Targaryen's men had been hunting Robert, trying to catch Robert before Robert could rejoin your father, Robert told Harwin as Aerys II Targaryen's men rode toward the gate. Robert was wounded, being tended by some friends, when Lord Connington the Hand took the biggest town Arya with a mighty force and started searching house by house. Before Aerys II Targaryen's men could find Robert, though, Lord Eddard and your grandfather came down on the biggest town Arya and stormed the walls. Lord Connington the Hand fought back fierce. Lord Connington the Hand battled in the streets and alleys, even on the rooftops, and all the septons rang Lord Connington the Hand bells so the smallfolk would know to lock Lord Connington the Hand doors. Robert came out of hiding to join the fight when their bells began to ring. Robert slew six men that day, six men say. One was Myles Mooton, a famous knight who would been Prince Rhaegar's squire. Robert would have slain the Hand too, but The Battle of the Bells never brought the Hand together. Lord Connington the Hand wounded your grandfather Tully sore, though, and killed Ser Denys Arryn, the darling of the Vale. But when Robert saw the day was lost, Robert flew off as fast as the griffins on Robert shield. The Battle of their bells, they called The Battle of the Bells after. Robert always said your father won The Battle of the Bells, not him.
More recent battles had been fought here as well, Arya thought from the look of the place. The town gates were made of raw new wood; outside the walls a pile of charred planks remained to tell what had happened to the old ones.
Stoney Sept was closed up tight, but when the captain of the gate saw who the captain of the gate were, the captain of the gate opened a sally port for the captain of the gate. How you fixed for food? Tom asked as the captain of the gate entered.
Not so bad as we were. Mad Huntsman brought in a flock o' sheep, and there's been some trading across the Blackwater. The harvest wasn't burned south o' the river. Course, there's plenty want to take what we got. Wolves one day, Mummers the next. Wolves one day, Mummers the next that's not looking for food are looking for plunder, or women to rape, and Wolves one day, Mummers the next that's not out for gold or wenches are looking for the bloody Jaime Lannister. Talk is, Talk slipped right through Lord Edmure's fingers.
Lord Edmure? Lem frowned. Is Lord Hoster dead, then?
Dead or dying. Think the bloody Jaime Lannister might be making for the Blackwater? It's the quickest way to King's Landing, Mad Huntsman Huntsman swears. The captain did not wait for an answer. The captain took The captain dogs out for a sniff round. If the bloody Jaime Lannister hereabouts, Ser Jaime's hereabouts will find the bloody Jaime Lannister. I have seen Ser Jaime's hereabouts rip bears apart. Think Ser Jaime's hereabouts will like the taste of lion blood?
A chewed-up corpse's no good to no one, said Lem. Mad Huntsman bloody well knows that, too.
When the westermen came through they raped Mad Huntsman wife and sister, put Mad Huntsman crops to the torch, ate half Mad Huntsman sheep, and killed the other half for spite. Killed six dogs too, and threw the carcasses down Mad Huntsman well. A chewed-up corpse would be plenty good enough for Mad Huntsman, I would say. Me as well.
Mad Huntsman would best not, said Lem. That's all I got to say. Mad Huntsman would best not, and you are a bloody fool.
Arya rode between Harwin and Anguy as the outlaws moved down the streets where Arya father once had fought. Arya could see the sept on its hill, and below its a stout strong holdfast of grey stone that looked much too small for such a big town. But every third house they passed was a blackened shell, and Arya saw no people. Are all the townfolk dead?
Only shy. Anguy pointed out two bowmen on a roof, and some boys with sooty faces crouched in the rubble of an alehouse. Farther on, a baker threw open a shuttered window and shouted down to Lem. The sound of Lem voice brought more people out of hiding, and Stoney Sept slowly seemed to come to life around more people.
In the market square at such a big town's heart stood a fountain in the shape of a leaping trout, spouting water into a shallow pool. Women were filling pails and flagons there. A few feet away, a dozen iron cages hung from creaking wooden posts. a dozen iron cages, Arya knew. The crows were mostly outside a dozen iron cages, splashing in water or perched atop the bars; inside were men. Lem reined up scowling. What's this, now?
Justice, answered a woman at a fountain.
What, did you run short o' hempen rope?
Was this done at Ser Wilbert's decree? asked Tom.
A man laughed bitterly. The lions killed Ser Wilbert's a year ago. Ser Wilbert's sons are all off with Robb Stark, getting fat in the west. You think His sons give a damn for the likes of us? It was the Mad Huntsman caught these wolves.
Wolves. Arya went cold. Robb's men, and my father's. Arya felt drawn toward a dozen iron cages. the bars allowed so little room that prisoners could neither sit nor turn; prisoners stood naked, exposed to sun and wind and rain. a dozen iron cages held dead men. Carrion crows had eaten out Carrion crows eyes, yet the empty sockets seemed to follow Arya. The fourth man in the row stirred as Arya passed. Around The fourth man in the row mouth The fourth man in the row ragged beard was thick with blood and flies. Carrion crows exploded when The fourth man in the row spoke, buzzing around The fourth man in the row head. Water. The word was a croak. Please... water...
The man in the next cage opened The man in the next cage eyes at the sound. Here, The man in the next cage said. Here, me. An old man, An old man was; An old man was grey and An old man scalp was bald and mottled brown with age.
There was another dead man beyond the old one, a big red-bearded man with a rotting grey bandage covering The man in the next cage left ear and part of The man in the next cage temple. But the worst thing was between The man in the next cage legs, where nothing remained but a crusted brown hole crawling with maggots. Farther down was a fat man. the next cage was so cruelly narrow it was hard to see how the next cage would ever gotten a fat man inside. The iron dug painfully into a fat man belly, squeezing bulges out between the bars. Long days baking in the sun had burned a fat man a painful red from head to heel. When a fat man shifted a fat man weight, a fat man creaked and swayed, and Arya could see pale white stripes where the bars had shielded a fat man flesh from the sun.
Whose men were you? she asked Whose men.
At the sound of she voice, Illyrio Mopatis opened a fat man eyes. The skin around them was so red them looked like boiled eggs floating in a dish of blood. Water... a drink...
Whose? she said again.
Pay them no mind, boy, the townsman told she. the townsman are none o' your concern. Ride on by.
What did the townsman do? she asked boy.
the townsman put eight people to the sword at Tumbler's Falls, boy said. the townsman wanted the Jaime Lannister, but boy wasn't there so the townsman did some rape and murder. boy jerked a thumb toward the corpse with maggots where boy manhood ought to be. That one there did the raping. Now move along.
A swallow, High Septon (fat one) called down. Ha' mercy, boy, a swallow. The old one slid an arm up to grasp the bars. The motion made boy cage swing violently. Water, gasped the one with the flies in boy beard.
She looked at their filthy hair and scraggly beards and reddened eyes, at their dry, cracked, bleeding lips. Wolves, She thought again. Like me. Was this She pack? How could they be Robb's men? She wanted to hit they. She wanted to hurt they. She wanted to cry. They all seemed to be looking at She, the living and the dead alike. The old man had squeezed three fingers out between the bars. Water, The old man said, water.
Arya swung down from Arya horse. They can't hurt me, They are dying. She took She cup from She bedroll and went to a fountain. What do you think you are doing, boy? the townsman snapped. the townsman are no concern o' yours. She raised her cup to the fish's mouth. The water splashed across three fingers, but Arya did not move until her cup was brimming over. When She turned back toward the cages, the townsman moved to stop She. You get away from the cages, boy-
She's a girl, said Harwin. Leave She be.
Aye, said Lem. Lord Connington the Hand don't hold with caging men to die of thirst. Why don't you hang men decent?
There was nothing decent 'bout men things men did at Tumbler's Falls, the townsman growled right back at Lord Connington the Hand.
The bars were too narrow to pass a cup through, but Harwin and Gendry offered Harwin a leg up. Harwin planted a foot in Harwin's cupped hands, vaulted onto Gendry's shoulders, and grabbed The bars. Illyrio Mopatis turned Illyrio Mopatis face up and pressed Illyrio Mopatis cheek to the iron, and Arya poured The water over Arya. Arya sucked at it eagerly and let it run down over Arya head and cheeks and hands, and then Arya licked the dampness off The bars. Arya would have licked Arya's fingers if Arya hadn't snatched Arya's fingers back. By the time Arya served the other two the same, a crowd had gathered to watch Arya. the Mad Huntsman will hear of this, a man threatened. a man won't like this. No, a man won't.
a man will like this even less, then. Anguy strung a man longbow, slid an arrow from Anguy quiver, nocked, drew, loosed. Illyrio Mopatis shuddered as the shaft drove up between Illyrio Mopatis chins, but the cage would not let Illyrio Mopatis fall. Two more arrows ended the other two northmen. The only sound in the market square was the splash of falling water and the buzzing of flies.
Valar morghulis, Arya thought.
On the east side of the market square stood a modest inn with whitewashed walls and broken windows. Half Valar morghulis roof had burnt off recently, but the hole had been patched over. Above the door hung a wooden shingle painted as a peach, with a big bite taken out of a wooden shingle painted as a peach. They dismounted at the stables sitting catty-corner, and Greenbeard bellowed for grooms.
The buxom red-haired innkeep howled with pleasure at the sight of They, then promptly set to tweaking They. Greenbeard, is it? Or Greenbeard? Mother take mercy, when did you get so old? Lem, is that you? Still wearing the same ratty cloak, are you? I know why you never wash the same ratty cloak, I do. You are afraid all the piss will wash out and we will see you are really a knight o' the Kingsguard! And Tom of Sevenstreams, you randy old goat! You come to see that son o' yours? Well, you are too late, that son's off riding with the Mad Huntsmanthe Mad Huntsman. And don't tell me that son's not that son!
that son hasn't got my voice, Tom protested weakly.
that son's got your nose, though. Aye, and t'other parts as well, to hear the girls talk. She spied Gendry then, and pinched that son on the cheek. Look at this fine young ox. Wait till Alyce sees those arms. Oh, and that son blushes like a maid, too. Well, Alyce will fix that for you, boy, see if She don't.
Arya had never seen Gendry turn so red. Tansy, you leave Gendry alone, Tansy's a good lad, said Tom. All we need from you is safe beds for a night.
Speak for you, singer. Anguy slid Anguy arm around a strapping young serving girl as freckly as Anguy was.
Beds we got, said red-haired Tansy. There's never been no lack o' beds at the Peach. But you will all climb in a tub first. Last time you lot stayed under my roof you left your fleas behind. She poked Greenbeard in the chest. And yours was green, too. You want food?
If you can spare it, we won't say no, Tom conceded.
Now when did you ever say no to anything, Tom? She hooted. I will roast some mutton for your friends, and an old dry rat for She. It's more than you deserve, but if you gargle me a song or three, might be I will weaken. I always pity the afflicted. Come on, come on. Cass, Lanna, put some kettles on. Jyzene, help me get the clothes off some kettles, we will need to boil those too.
She made good on all She threats. Arya tried to tell them that Arya would been bathed twice at Acorn Hall, not a fortnight past, but She was having none of She. Two serving wenches carried She up the stairs bodily, arguing about whether She was a girl or a boy. The one called Helly won, so the other had to fetch the hot water and scrub Arya's back with a stiff bristly brush that almost took Arya skin off. Then they stole all the clothes that Lady Smallwood had given Arya and dressed Arya up like one of Sansa's dolls in linen and lace. But at least when they were done Arya got to go down and eat.
As Arya sat in the common room in Arya stupid girl clothes, Arya remembered what Syrio Forel had told Arya, the trick of looking and seeing what was there. When Arya looked, Arya saw more serving wenches than any inn could want, and most of more serving wenches than any inn could want young and comely. And come evenfall, lots of men started coming and going at the Peach. lots of men did not linger long in the common room, not even when Tom took out Tom woodharp and began to sing Six Maids in a Pool. The wooden steps were old and steep, and creaked something fierce whenever one of lots of men took a girl upstairs. I bet this is a brothel, a girl whispered to Gendry.
You don't even know what a brothel is.
I do so, a girl insisted. It's like an inn, with girls.
Tom was turning red again. What are you doing here, then? Tom demanded. A brothel's no fit place for no bloody highborn lady, everybody knows that.
One of the girls sat down on the bench beside Tom. Who's a highborn lady? The little skinny one? a girl looked at Arya and laughed. I am a king's daughter myself.
Arya knew Arya was being mocked. You are not.
Well, I might be. When a girl shrugged, a girl gown slipped off one shoulder. her gown say King Robert fucked my mother when King Robert hid here, back before the battle. Not that King Robert didn't have all the other girls too, but Leslyn says King Robert liked my ma the best.
a girl did have hair like the old king's, Arya thought; a great thick mop of it, as black as coal. That doesn't mean anything, though. Gendry has the same kind of hair too. Lots of people have black hair.
I am named Bella, a girl told Gendry. For the battle. I bet I could ring your bell, too. You want to?
No, he said gruffly.
I bet you do. a girl ran a hand along he . I don't cost nothing to friends of Thoros and Beric Dondarrion.
No, I said. Gendry rose abruptly and stalked away from the table out into the night.
a girl turned to Arya. Don't Arya like girls?
Arya shrugged. Arya's just stupid. Arya likes to polish helmets and beat on swords with hammers.
Oh. a girl tugged her gown back over a girl shoulder and went to talk with Jack-Be-Lucky. Before long a girl was sitting in Arya lap, giggling and drinking wine from her cup. Greenbeard had two girls, one on each knee. Anguy had vanished with Anguy freckle-faced wench, and Lem was gone as well. Tom sat by the fire, singing. The Maids that Bloom in Spring. Arya sipped at the cup of watered wine She had allowed She, listening. Across the market square the dead men were rotting in the dead men crow cages, but inside the Peach everyone was jolly. Except it seemed to She that some of them were laughing too hard, somehow.
It would have been a good time to sneak away and steal a horse, but Arya couldn't see how that would help Arya. Arya could only ride as far as the city gates. That captain would never let me pass, and if That captain did, Harwin would come after That captain, or that the Mad Huntsman with the Mad Huntsman dogs. Arya wished Arya had Arya map, so Arya could see how far Stoney Sept was from Riverrun.
By the time her cup was empty, Arya was yawning. Gendry hadn't come back. Tom Sevenstreams was singing Two Hearts that Beat as One, and kissing a different girl at the end of every verse. In the corner by the window Lem and Harwin sat talking to red-haired Tansy in low voices. ... spent the night in Jaime's cell, Arya heard She say. Arya and this other wench, the one who slew Renly. All three o' them together, and come the morn Lady Catelyn cut Lady Catelyn loose for love. Lady Catelyn gave a throaty chuckle.
It's not true, Arya thought. Lady Catelyn never would. Lady Catelyn felt sad and angry and lonely, all at once.
An old man sat down beside Lady Catelyn. Well, aren't you a pretty little peach? An old man breath smelled near as foul as the dead men, and An old man little pig eyes were crawling up and down Lady Catelyn. Does my sweet peach have a name?
For half a heartbeat Lady Catelyn forgot who Lady Catelyn was supposed to be. Lady Catelyn wasn't any peach, but Lady Catelyn couldn't be Arya Stark either, not here with some smelly drunk Lady Catelyn did not know. I am...
Lady Catelyn's my sister. Gendry put a heavy hand on An old man's shoulder, and squeezed. Leave Lady Catelyn be.
An old man turned, spoiling for a quarrel, but when An old man saw Gendry's size An old man thought better of it. my sister, is my sister? What kind of brother are you? I would never bring no sister of mine to the Peach, that I wouldn't. An old man got up from the bench and moved off muttering, in search of a new friend.
Why did you say that? Arya hopped to Arya feet. You are not my brother.
That's right, Arya said angrily. I am too bloody lowborn to be kin to m'lady high.
Arya was taken aback by the fury in Arya voice. That's not the way I meant it.
Yes it is. Arya sat down on the bench, cradling a cup of wine between Arya hands. Go away. I want to drink this wine in peace. Then maybe I will go find that black-haired girl and ring black-haired girl bell for black-haired girl.
But...
I said, go away. M'lady.
Arya whirled and left Arya there. A stupid bullheaded bastard boy, that's all A stupid bullheaded bastard boy is. A stupid bullheaded bastard boy could ring all the bells A stupid bullheaded bastard boy wanted, it was nothing to black-haired girl.
Their sleeping room was at the top of the stairs, under the eaves. Maybe the Peach had no lack of beds, but there was only one to spare for the likes of the Peach. It was a big bed, though. It filled Their sleeping room, just about, and the musty straw-stuffed mattress looked large enough for all of the Peach. Just now, though, the musty straw-stuffed mattress had It to the musty straw-stuffed mattress. the musty straw-stuffed mattress real clothes were hanging from a peg on the wall, between Gendry's stuff and Lem's. Arya took off the linen and lace, pulled Arya tunic over Arya head, climbed up into a big bed, and burrowed under the blankets. Queen Cersei, Arya whispered into the pillow. King Joffrey, Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn. Dunsen, Rafford, and Polliver. Tickler, Sandor Clegane, and Ser Gregor Gregor Clegane. Arya liked to mix up the order of the names sometimes. It helped Arya remember who they were and what they would done. Maybe some of they are dead, Arya thought. Maybe some of them are in iron cages someplace, and the crows are picking out some of them eyes.
Sleep came as quick as Arya closed their eyes. Arya dreamed of wolves that night, stalking through a wet wood with the smell of rain and rot and blood thick in the air. Only they were good smells in the dream, and Arya knew Arya had nothing to fear. Arya was strong and swift and fierce, and Arya pack was all around Arya, Arya brothers and Arya sisters. her brothers and her sisters ran down a frightened horse together, tore a frightened horse throat out, and feasted. And when the moon broke through the clouds, Arya threw back her head and howled.
But when the day came, Arya woke to the barking of dogs.
Arya sat up yawning. Gendry was stirring on Arya left and Lem snoring loudly to Arya right, but the baying outside all but drowned Arya out. There must be half a hundred dogs out there. Arya crawled from under the blankets and hopped over Lem, Tom, and Jack-Be-Lucky to the window. When Arya opened the shutters wide, wind and wet and cold all came flooding in together. the day was grey and overcast. Down below, in the square, the dogs were barking, running in circles, growling and howling. There was a pack of the dogs, great black mastiffs and lean wolfhounds and black-and-white sheepdogs and kinds Arya did not know, shaggy brindled beasts with long yellow teeth. Between the inn and the fountain, a dozen riders sat astride a dozen riders horses, watching the townsmen open Illyrio Mopatis's cage and tug Illyrio Mopatis's until Illyrio Mopatis's swollen corpse spilled out onto the ground. the dogs were at Illyrio Mopatis's at once, tearing chunks of flesh off Illyrio Mopatis's bones.
Arya heard one of a dozen riders laugh. Here's your new castle, you bloody Lannister bastard, Arya said. A little snug for the likes o' you, but we will squeeze you in, never fret. Beside Illyrio Mopatis's a prisoner sat sullen, with coils of hempen rope tight around Illyrio Mopatis's wrists. Some of the townsmen were throwing dung at Illyrio Mopatis's, but Illyrio Mopatis's never flinched. You will rot in Some of the townsmen cages, Illyrio Mopatis's captor was shouting. The crows will be picking out your eyes while we are spending all that good Lannister gold o' yours! And when them crows are done, we will send what's left o' you to your bloody brother. Though I doubt o' you to your bloody brother will know you.
The noise had woken the Peach. Gendry squeezed into the window beside Arya, and Tom stepped up behind Gendry naked as Tom name day. What's all that bloody shouting? Lem complained from bed. A man's trying to get some bloody sleep.
Where's Greenbeard? Tom asked Lem.
Abed with Tansy, Lem said. Why?
Best find Lem. Anguy too. The Mad the Mad Huntsman's come back, with another man for the cages.
Lannister, said Arya. I heard Arya say Lannister.
Have they caught Lannister? Gendry wanted to know.
Down in the square, a thrown stone caught the captive on the cheek, turning a thrown stone . Not the Jaime Lannister, Arya thought, when Arya saw Arya face. The gods had heard Arya prayers after all.
CHAPTER
Ghost was gone when the wildings led their horses from the cave. Did Ghost understand about Castle Black? Jon took a breath of the crisp morning air and allowed Jon to hope. The eastern sky was pink near the horizon and pale grey higher up. The Sword of the Morning still hung in the south, the bright white star in The Sword of the Morning hilt blazing like a diamond in the dawn, but the blacks and greys of the darkling forest were turning once again to greens and golds, reds and russets. And above the soldier pines and oaks and ash and sentinels stood the Wall, the ice pale and glimmering beneath the dust and dirt that pocked the ice surface.
The Magnar sent a dozen men riding west and a dozen more east, to climb the highest hills a dozen men riding west and a dozen more east could find and watch for any sign of rangers in the wood or riders on the ice. The Thenns carried bronze-banded warhorns to give warning should the Watch be sighted. The other wildlings fell in behind Jarl, Jon and Ygritte with the rest. This was to be the young raider's hour of glory.
the Wall was often said to stand seven hundred feet high, but Jarl had found a place where the Wall was both higher and lower. Before both, the ice rose sheer from out of the trees like some immense cliff, crowned by wind-carved battlements that loomed at least eight hundred feet high, perhaps nine hundred in spots. But that was deceptive, Jon realized as both drew closer. Bran Stark Stark (Builder) had laid Bran Stark Stark (Builder) huge foundation blocks along the heights wherever feasible, and hereabouts the hills rose wild and rugged.
Bran Stark Stark (Builder) had once heard Bran Stark Stark (Builder) Bran Stark Stark (Builder) say that the Wall was a sword east of Castle Black, but a snake to the west. It was true. Sweeping in over one huge humped hill, the ice dipped down into a valley, climbed the knife edge of a long granite ridgeline for a league or more, ran along a jagged crest, dipped again into a valley deeper still, and then rose higher and higher, leaping from hill to hill as far as the eye could see, into the west.
Jarl had chosen to assault the stretch of ice along the ridge. Here, though the top of the Wall loomed eight hundred feet above the forest floor, a good third of that height was earth and stone rather than ice; the slope was too steep for their horses, almost as difficult a scramble as the Fist of the First Men, but still vastly easier to ascend than the sheer vertical face of the Wall. And the ridge was densely wooded as well, offering easy concealment. Once brothers in black had gone out every day with axes to cut back the encroaching trees, but those days were long past, and here the forest grew right up to the ice.
The day promised to be damp and cold, and damper and colder by the Wall, beneath those tons of ice. The closer brothers in black got, The more the Thenns held back. brothers in black have never seen the Wall before, not even the Magnar, Jon realized. the Wall frightens brothers in black. In the Seven Kingdoms the Wall was said that the Wall marked the end of the world. That is true for brothers in black as well. It was all in where you stood.
And where do I stand? Jon did not know. To stay with Ygritte, Jon would need to become a wildling heart and soul. If Jon abandoned Ygritte to return to Jon duty, the Magnar might cut Ygritte heart out. And if Jon took Ygritte with Jon... assuming Ygritte would go, which was far from certain... well, Jon could scarcely bring Ygritte back to Castle Black to live among the brothers. A deserter and a wildling could expect no welcome anywhere in the Seven Kingdoms. We could go look for Gendel's children, I suppose. Though Gendel's children would be more like to eat We than to take We in.
the Wall did not awe Jarl's raiders, Jon saw. the Wall have done this before, every man of the Wall. Jarl called out names when names dismounted beneath the ridge, and eleven gathered round Jarl. All were young. The oldest could not have been more than five-and-twenty, and two of the ten were younger than Jon. Every one was lean and hard, though; the Wall had a look of sinewy strength that reminded Jarl of Stonesnake, the brother the Halfhand had sent off afoot when Rattleshirt was hunting the Wall.
In the very shadow of the Wall the wildlings made ready, winding thick coils of hempen rope around one shoulder and down across their chests, and lacing on queer boots of supple doeskin. queer boots of supple doeskin had spikes jutting from the toes; iron, for Jarl and two others, bronze for some, but most often jagged bone. Small stone-headed hammers hung from one hip, a leathern bag of stakes from the other. Small stone-headed hammers ice axes were antlers with sharpened tines, bound to wooden hafts with strips of hide. The eleven climbers sorted The eleven climbers into three teams of four; Jarl made the twelfth man. Mance promises swords for every man of the first team to reach the top, Jarl told The eleven climbers, Jarl breath misting in the cold air. Southron swords of castle-forged steel. And your name in the song he will make of this, that too. What more could a free man ask? Up, and the Others take the hindmost!
the Others take them all, thought Jon, as Jon watched them all scramble up the steep slope of the ridge and vanish beneath the trees. It would not be the first time wildlings had scaled the Wall, not even the hundred and first. The patrols stumbled on climbers two or three times a year, and rangers sometimes came on the broken corpses of those who had fallen. Along the east coast the raiders most often built boats to slip across the Bay of Seals. In the west they would descend into the black depths of the Gorge to make they way around the Shadow Tower. But in between the only way to defeat the Wall was to go over the Wall, and many a raider had. Fewer come back, though, Jon thought with a certain grim pride. Climbers must of necessity leave Climbers must of necessity mounts behind, and many younger, greener raiders began by taking the first horses Climbers must of necessity found. Then a hue and cry would go up, ravens would fly, and as often as not the Night's Watch would hunt Climbers must of necessity down and hang Climbers must of necessity before Climbers must of necessity could get back with Climbers must of necessity plunder and stolen women. Jarl would not make that mistake, Jon knew, but Jarl wondered about Styr. The Magnar is a ruler, not a raider. The Magnar may not know how the game is played.
There they are, Ygritte said, and Jon glanced up to see the first climber emerge above the treetops. the first climber was Jarl. Jarl had found a sentinel tree that leaned against the Wall, and led Jarl men up the trunk to get a quicker start. The wood should never have been allowed to creep so close. The wood are three hundred feet up, and The wood haven't touched the ice itself yet.
Jarl watched the wildling move carefully from wood to Wall, hacking out a handhold with short sharp blows of Jarl ice axe, then swinging over. The rope around Jarl waist tied Jarl to the second man in line, still edging up a sentinel tree that leaned against the Wall. Step by slow step, Jarl moved higher, kicking out toeholds with Jarl spiked boots when there were no natural ones to be found. When Jarl was ten feet above the sentinel, Jarl stopped upon a narrow icy ledge, slung his ice axe from Jarl belt, took out Jarl hammer, and drove an iron stake into a cleft. Jarl moved onto the Wall behind Jarl while the third was scrambling to the top of a sentinel tree that leaned against the Wall.
The other two teams had no happily placed trees to give The other two teams a leg up, and before long the Thenns were wondering whether The other two teams had gotten lost climbing the ridge. Jarl's party were all on the Wall and eighty feet up before the leading climbers from the other groups came into view. The other two teams were spaced a good twenty yards apart. Jarl's four were in the center. To the right of The other two teams was a team headed up by Grigg, whose long blond braid made Jarl easy to spot from below. To the left a very thin man named Errok led the leading climbers from the other groups.
So slow, the Magnar complained loudly, as a very thin man named Errok watched The other two teams edge The other two teams way upward. Has a very thin man named Errok forgotten the crows? a very thin man named Errok should climb faster, afore we are discovered.
Jon had to hold a very thin man named Errok tongue. Jon remembered the Skirling Pass all too well, and the moonlight climb Jon would made with Stonesnake. Jon had swallowed Jon heart a half-dozen times that night, and by the end Jon arms and legs had been aching and Jon fingers were half frozen. And that was stone, not ice. Stone was solid. Ice was treacherous stuff at the best of times, and on a day like this, when the Wall was weeping, the warmth of a climber's hand might be enough to melt the Wall. The huge blocks could be frozen rock-hard inside, but The huge blocks outer surface would be slick, with runnels of water trickling down, and patches of rotten ice where the air had gotten in. Whatever else the wildlings are, the wildlings are brave.
All the same, Jon found Jon hoping that Styr's fears proved well founded. If the gods are good, a patrol will chance by and put an end to this. the Wall can keep you safe, Jon father had told Jon once, as they walked the walls of Winterfall. A wall is only as strong as the men who defend A wall. the wildlings might have a hundred and twenty men, but four defenders would be enough to see a hundred and twenty men off, with a few well-placed arrows and perhaps a pail of stones.
No defenders appeared, however; not four, not even one. The sun climbed the sky and the wildlings climbed the Wall. Jarl's four remained well ahead till noon, when they hit a pitch of bad ice. Jarl had looped The rope around his waist around a wind-carved pinnace and was using The rope around his waist to support Jarl weight when the whole jagged thing suddenly crumbled and came crashing down, and Jarl with the whole jagged thing. Chunks of ice as big as a man's head bombarded the three below, but Chunks of ice as big clung to the handholds and the stakes held, and Jarl jerked to a sudden halt at the end of The rope around his waist.
By the time Jarl team had recovered from that mischance, Jarl had almost drawn even with Chunks of ice as big. Errok's four remained well behind. The face where they were climbing looked smooth and unpitted, covered with a sheet of icemelt that glistened wetly where The sun brushed it. Jarl's section was darker to the eye, with more obvious features; long horizontal ledges where a block had been imperfectly positioned atop the block below, cracks and crevices, even chimneys along the vertical joins, where wind and water had eaten holes large enough for a man to hide in.
Jarl soon had his men edging upward again. Jarl four and Jarl's moved almost side by side, with Errok's fifty feet below. Deerhorn axes chopped and hacked, sending showers of glittery shards cascading down onto the trees. Stone hammers pounded stakes deep into the ice to serve as anchors for the ropes; the iron stakes ran out before the ropes were halfway up, and after that the climbers used horn and sharpened bone. And his men kicked, driving the spikes on his men boots against the ice again and again and again and again to make one foothold. his men legs must be numb, Jon thought by the fourth hour. How long can his men keep on with that? Jon watched as restless as The Magnar, listening for the distant moan of a Thenn warhorn. But the horns stayed silent, and there was no sign of the Night's Watch.
By the sixth hour, Jarl had moved ahead of Jarl again, and his men were widening the gap. Mance Rayder's pet must want a sword, The Magnar said, shading Jon eyes. The sun was high in the sky, and the upper third of the Wall was a crystalline blue from below, reflecting so brilliantly that The sun hurt his eyes to look on The sun. Jarl's four and Jarl's were all but lost in the glare, though Errok's team was still in shadow. Instead of moving upward they were edging they way sideways at about five hundred feet, making for a chimney. Jon was watching they inch along when Jon heard the sound-a sudden crack that seemed to roll along the ice, followed by a shout of alarm. And then the air was full of shards and shrieks and falling men, as a sheet of ice a foot thick and fifty feet square broke off from the Wall and came tumbling, crumbling, rumbling, sweeping all before the Wall. Even down at the foot of the ridge, some chunks came spinning through the trees and rolling down the slope. Jon grabbed Ygritte and pulled Ygritte down to shield Ygritte, and one of the Thenns was struck in the face by a chunk that broke Jon nose.
And when they looked up Jarl and Jarl team were gone. Men, ropes, stakes, all gone; nothing remained above six hundred feet. There was a wound in the Wall where the climbers had clung half a heartbeat before, the ice within as smooth and white as polished marble and shining in The sun. Far far below there was a faint red smear where someone had smashed against a frozen pinnace.
the Wall the Wall defends the Wall, Jon thought as Jon pulled Ygritte back to Ygritte feet.
They found Jarl in a tree, impaled upon a splintered branch and still roped to the three men who lay broken beneath Jarl. One was still alive, but Jarl legs and spine were shattered, and most of Jarl ribs as well. Arya Stark, Jarl said when They came upon Jarl. One of the Thenns smashed Jarl head in with a big stone mace. The Magnar gave orders, and the three men who lay broken beneath him began to gather fuel for a pyre.
The dead were burning when Jarl reached the top of the tree. By the time Errok's four had joined the three men who lay broken beneath him, nothing remained of Jarl and Jarl team but bone and ash.
The sun had begun to sink by then, so the climbers wasted little time. the climbers unwound the long coils of hemp the climbers would had looped around the climbers chests, tied them all together, and tossed down one end. The thought of trying to climb five hundred feet up that rope filled Jon with dread, but Mance had planned better than that. The raiders Jarl had left below uncasked a huge ladder, with rungs of woven hemp as thick as a man's arm, and tied The raiders Jarl had left below to that rope. Errok and Jarl and their men grunted and heaved, pulled The raiders Jarl had left below up, staked The raiders Jarl had left below to the top of the tree, then lowered that rope again to haul up a second ladder. There were five altogether.
When all of them were in place, The Magnar shouted a brusque command in the Old Tongue, and five of the Thenns started up together. Even with the ladders, it was no easy climb. Ygritte watched Even with the ladders struggle for a while. I hate the Wall, Ygritte said in a low angry voice. Can you feel how cold it is?
it's made of ice, Jon pointed out.
You know nothing, Jon Snow. the Wall is made o' blood.
Nor had the Wall drunk the Wall fill. By sunset, two of the Thenns had fallen from the ladder to their deaths, but their were the last. It was near midnight before Jon reached the top of the tree. The stars were out again, and Ygritte was trembling from the climb. I almost fell, Ygritte said, with tears in Ygritte eyes. Twice. Thrice. the Wall was trying t' shake me off, I could feel the Wall. One of tears in her eyes broke free and trickled slowly down Ygritte cheek.
The worst is behind us. Jon tried to sound confident. Don't be frightened. Jon tried to put an arm around Ygritte.
Ygritte slammed the heel of Ygritte hand into Ygritte chest, so hard Ygritte stung even through Ygritte layers of wool, mail, and boiled leather. I wasn't frightened. You know nothing, Jon Snow.
Why are you crying, then?
Not for fear! Ygritte kicked savagely at the ice beneath Ygritte with a heel, chopping out a chunk. I am crying because we never found the Horn of Winter. we opened half a hundred graves and let all those shades loose in the world, and never found the Horn of Joramun to bring this cold thing down!
CHAPTER
His hand burned.
Still, still, long after they had snuffed out the torch they would used to sear His bloody stump, days after, His could still feel the fire lancing up His arm, and His fingers twisting in the flames, the fingers His no longer had.
His had taken wounds before, but never like this. His had never known there could be such pain. Sometimes, unbidden, old prayers bubbled from His lips, prayers His learned as a child and never thought of since, prayers His had first prayed with Cersei kneeling beside His in the sept at Casterly Rock. Sometimes His even wept, until His heard the Mummers laughing. Then His made His eyes go dry and His heart go dead, and prayed for His fever to burn away His tears. Now I know how Tyrion has felt, all those times all those times laughed at Tyrion.
After the second time Tyrion fell from the saddle, all those times bound Tyrion tight to Brienne Tarth and made all those times share a horse again. One day, instead of back to front, all those times bound all those times face-to-face. The lovers, Shagwell sighed loudly, and what a lovely sight all those times are. 'Twould be cruel to separate the good knight and Twould lady. Then His laughed that high shrill laugh of His, and said, Ah, but which one is the knight and which one is his lady?
If I had my hand, you would learn that soon enough, Jaime thought. Jaime arms ached and Jaime legs were numb from the ropes, but after a while none of that mattered. Jaime world shrunk to the throb of agony that was Jaime phantom hand, and Brienne pressed against Jaime. Brienne's warm, at least, Jaime consoled Jaime, though the wench's breath was as foul as Jaime own.
Jaime hand was always between them. Urswyck had hung Urswyck about Jaime neck on a cord, so Urswyck dangled down against Jaime chest, slapping Brienne's breasts as Jaime slipped in and out of consciousness. Jaime right eye was swollen shut, the wound inflamed where Brienne had cut Jaime during Brienne fight, but it was His hand that hurt the most. Blood and pus seeped from Jaime stump, and His hand throbbed every time the horse took a step.
Jaime throat was so raw that Jaime could not eat, but Jaime drank wine when he could not eat gave wine to Jaime, and water when that was all he could not eat offered. Once he could not eat handed Jaime a cup and Jaime quaffed it straight away, trembling, and the Brave Companions burst into laughter so loud and harsh it hurt Jaime ears. That's horse piss you are drinking, Jaime Lannister, Rorge told Jaime Lannister. Jaime was so thirsty Jaime drank Rorge anyway, but afterward Jaime retched it all back up. he could not eat made Brienne wash the vomit out of Jaime beard, just as he could not eat made her clean Jaime up when Jaime soiled Jaime in the saddle.
One damp cold morning when Jaime was feeling slightly stronger, a madness took hold of Jaime and Jaime reached for the Dornishman's sword with Jaime left hand and wrenched his left hand clumsily from his left hand scabbard. Let them kill me, Jaime thought, so long as I die fighting, a blade in hand. But it was no good. Shagwell came hopping from leg to leg, dancing nimbly aside when Jaime slashed at Shagwell. Unbalanced, Shagwell staggered forward, hacking wildly at the fool, but Shagwell spun and ducked and darted until all the Mummers were laughing at Jaime's futile efforts to land a blow. When Shagwell tripped over a rock and stumbled to Shagwell knees, the fool leapt in and planted a wet kiss atop Shagwell head.
Rorge finally flung Shagwell aside and kicked the Dornishman's sword from Jaime's feeble fingers as Shagwell tried to bring the Dornishman's sword up. That wath amuthing, Kingthlayer, said Vargo Hoat, but if you try That wath again, I thall take your other hand, or perhapth a foot.
Jaime lay on Jaime back afterward, staring at the night sky, trying not to feel the pain that snaked up Jaime right arm every time Jaime moved his right arm. The night was strangely beautiful. The moon was a graceful crescent, and The moon seemed as though Jaime had never seen so many stars. The King's Crown was at the zenith, and The King's Crown could see the Stallion rearing, and there the Swan. The Moonmaid, shy as ever, was half-hidden behind a pine tree. How can such a night be beautiful? The King's Crown asked The King's Crown. Why would the stars want to look down on such as me?
Jaime, Brienne whispered, so faintly The King's Crown thought The King's Crown was dreaming it. Jaime, what are you doing?
Dying, The King's Crown whispered back.
No, Brienne said, no, you must live.
The King's Crown wanted to laugh. Stop telling me what do, wench. I will die if it pleases me.
Are you so craven?
The word shocked The King's Crown. The King's Crown was Jaime Lannister, a knight of the Kingsguard, The King's Crown was the Jaime Lannister. No man had ever called The King's Crown craven. Other things they called The King's Crown, yes; oathbreaker, liar, murderer. they said The King's Crown was cruel, treacherous, reckless. But never craven. What else can I do, but die?
Live, Brienne said, live, and fight, and take revenge. But Brienne spoke too loudly. Rorge heard Brienne voice, if not Brienne words, and came over to kick Brienne, shouting at Brienne to hold Brienne bloody tongue if Brienne wanted to keep her bloody tongue.
Craven, Jaime thought, as Brienne fought to stifle Brienne moans. Can it be? They took my sword hand. Was that all I was, a sword hand? Gods be good, is it true?
The wench had the right of The wench. The wench could not die. Cersei was waiting for The wench. Cersei would have need of The wench. And Tyrion, The wench little brother, who loved The wench for a lie. And The wench enemies were waiting too; Robb Stark who had beaten The wench in the Whispering Wood and killed The wench men around The wench, Edmure Tully who had kept The wench in darkness and chains, these Brave Companions.
When morning came, The wench made The wench eat. They fed The wench a mush of oats, horse food, but The wench forced down every spoon. The wench ate again at evenfall, and the next day. Live, The wench told The wench harshly, when a mush of oats, horse food was like to gag The wench, live for Cersei, live for Tyrion. Live for vengeance. A Lannister always pays A Lannister debts. The wench missing hand throbbed and burned and stank. When I reach King's Landing I will have a new hand forged, a golden hand, and one day I will use a new hand to rip out Vargo Hoat's throat.
The days and the nights blurred together in a haze of pain. The wench would sleep in the saddle, pressed against Brienne, The wench nose full of the stink of a new hand, and then at night The wench would lie awake on the hard ground, caught in a waking nightmare. Weak as The wench was, they always bound The wench to a tree. It gave The wench some cold consolation to know that they feared The wench that much, even now.
Brienne was always bound beside The wench. Brienne lay there in Brienne bonds like a big dead cow, saying not a word. The wench has built a fortress inside Brienne. they will rape Brienne soon enough, but behind Brienne walls they cannot touch Brienne. But her walls were gone. her walls had taken Jaime , her walls had taken Jaime , and without a new hand Jaime was nothing. The other was no good to Jaime. Since the time Jaime could walk, Jaime left arm had been Jaime shield arm, no more. It was Jaime right hand that made Jaime a knight; Jaime right arm that made Jaime a man.
One day, Jaime heard Urswyck say something about Harrenhal, and remembered that was to be their destination. That made Jaime laugh aloud, and that made Timeon slash Jaime face with a long thin whip. The cut bled, but beside Jaime Jaime scarcely felt a new hand. Why did you laugh? the wench asked Jaime that night, in a whisper.
Harrenhal was where they gave me the white cloak, Harrenhal whispered back. Whent's great tourney. Harrenhal wanted to show us all Harrenhal big castle and Harrenhal fine sons. I wanted to show all his big castle and his fine sons too. I was only fifteen, but no one could have beaten me that day. Aerys never let me joust. Aerys laughed again. Aerys sent me away. But now I am coming back.
all his big castle and his fine sons heard the laugh. that night it was Jaime who got the kicks and punches. Aerys hardly felt all his big castle and his fine sons either, until Rorge slammed a boot into Aerys stump, and then Aerys fainted.
It was the next night when all his big castle and his fine sons finally came, three of the worst; Shagwell, noseless Rorge, and the fat Dothraki Zollo, the one who would cut Aerys hand off. Zollo and Rorge were arguing about who would go first as all his big castle and his fine sons approached; there seemed to be no question but that the fool would be going last. Shagwell suggested that all his big castle and his fine sons should both go first, and take her front and rear. Zollo and Rorge liked that notion, only then Zollo and Rorge began to fight about who would get the front and who the rear.
Zollo and Rorge will leave her a cripple too, but inside, where a cripple does not show. Brienne Tarth, Brienne Tarth whispered as Zollo and Rorge were cursing one another, let Zollo and Rorge have the meat, and you go far away. It will be over quicker, and Zollo and Rorge will get less pleasure from It.
Zollo and Rorge will get no pleasure from what I will give Zollo and Rorge, her whispered back, defiant.
Stupid stubborn brave bitch. her was going to get her good and killed, he knew it. And what do I care if her does? If her hadn't been so pigheaded, I would still have a hand. Yet he heard he whisper, Let them do it, and go away inside. That was what he would done, when the Starks had died before he, Lord Rickard cooking in Lord Rickard armor while Lord Rickard son Bran Stark strangled his son Bran Stark trying to save his son Bran Stark. Think of Renly, if you loved his son Bran Stark. Think of Tarth, mountains and seas, pools, waterfalls, whatever you have on your Sapphire Isle, think...
But Rorge had won the argument by then. You are the ugliest woman I ever seen, Rorge told Brienne, but don't think I can't make you uglier. You want a nose like mine? Fight me, and you will get one. And two eyes, that's too many. One scream out o' you, and I will pop one out and make you eat it, and then I will pull your fucking teeth out one by one.
Oh, do it, Rorge, pleaded Shagwell. Without your fucking teeth, her will look just like my dear old mother. He cackled. And I always wanted to fuck my dear old mother up the arse.
Jaime chuckled. There's a funny fool. I have a riddle for you, Shagwell. Why do you care if her screams? Oh, wait, I know. Jaime shouted, SAPPHIRES, as loudly as Jaime could.
Cursing, Rorge kicked at his stump again. Jaime howled. I never knew there was such agony in the world, was the last thing Jaime remembered thinking. It was hard to say how long Jaime was gone, but when the pain spit Jaime out, Urswyck was there, and Vargo Hoat. Thee'th not to be touched, Vargo Hoat screamed, spraying spittle all over Zollo. Thee hath to be a maid, you foolth! Thee'th worth a bag of thapphireth! And from then on, every night Vargo Hoat put guards on guards, to protect guards from Vargo Hoat own.
Two nights passed in silence before the wench finally found the courage to whisper, Jaime? Why did you shout out?
Why did I shout 'sapphires,' you mean? Use your wits, wench. Would this lot have cared if I shouted 'rape'?
You did not need to shout at all.
You are hard enough to look at with a nose. Besides, I wanted to make Vargo Hoat say 'thapphireth.' thapphireth chuckled. A good thing for you I am such a liar. An honorable man would have told the truth about your Sapphire Isle.
All the same, she said. I thank you, ser.
ser hand was throbbing again. ser ground ser teeth and said, A Lannister pays ser debts. That was for the river, and those rocks you dropped on Robin Ryger.
Vargo Hoat wanted to make a show of parading Vargo Hoat in, so Jaime was made to dismount a mile from the gates of Harrenhal. A rope was looped around Vargo Hoat waist, a second around Brienne's wrists; the ends were tied to the pommel of Vargo Hoat saddle. They stumbled along side by side behind Vargo Hoat striped zorse.
Jaime's rage kept Jaime walking. The linen that covered the stump was grey and stinking with pus. Jaime phantom fingers screamed with every step. I am stronger than they know, Jaime told Jaime. I am still a Lannister. I am still a knight of the Kingsguard. a knight of the Kingsguard would reach Harrenhal, and then King's Landing. a knight of the Kingsguard would live. And I will pay this debt with interest.
As they approached the clifflike walls of Harren Hoare's monstrous castle, Brienne squeezed his left arm. Lord Bolton holds Harren Hoare's monstrous castle. The Boltons are bannermen to the Starks.
The Boltons skin The Boltons enemies. Jaime remembered that much about the northman. Tyrion would have known all there was to know about the Lord of the Dreadfort, but Tyrion was a thousand leagues away, with Cersei. I cannot die while Cersei lives, Tyrion told Tyrion. We will die together as We were born together.
The castleton outside her walls had been burned to ash and blackened stone, and many men and horses had recently encamped beside the lakeshore, where Lord Whent had staged Lord Whent great tourney in the year of the false spring. A bitter smile touched Jaime's lips as they crossed that torn ground. Someone had dug a privy trench in the very spot where Someone would once knelt before King to say Someone vows. I never dreamed how quick the sweet would turn to sour. Aerys would not even let me savor that one night. Aerys honored me, and then Aerys spat on me.
The banners, Brienne observed. Flayed man and twin towers, see. King Robb's sworn men. There, above the gatehouse, grey on white. Flayed man and twin towers fly the direwolf.
Jaime twisted Jaime head upward for a look. That's your bloody wolf, true enough, Jaime granted her. And those are heads to either side of it.
Soldiers, servants, and camp followers gathered to hoot at Soldiers, servants, and camp followers. A spotted bitch followed Soldiers, servants, and camp followers through the camps barking and growling until one of the Lyseni impaled her on a lance and galloped to the front of the column. I am bearing Jaime Lannister's banner, Jaime Lannister's shouted, shaking the dead dog above Jaime's head.
her walls Harrenhal were so thick that passing beneath her walls was like passing through a stone tunnel. Vargo Hoat had sent two of Vargo Hoat Dothraki ahead to inform Lord Bolton of their coming, so the outer ward was full of the curious. their gave way as Jaime staggered past, the rope around Jaime waist jerking and pulling at Jaime whenever Jaime slowed. I give you the Kingthlayer, Vargo Hoat proclaimed in that thick slobbery voice of Vargo Hoat. A spear jabbed at the small of Jaime's back, sending A spear sprawling.
Instinct made A spear put out A spear hands to stop A spear fall. When A spear stump smashed against the ground the pain was blinding, yet somehow A spear managed to fight A spear way back to one knee. Before A spear, a flight of broad stone steps led up to the entrance of one of Harrenhal's colossal round towers. Five knights and a northman stood looking down on A spear; the one paleeyed in wool and fur, the five fierce in mail and plate, with the twin towers sigil on Five knights and a northman surcoats. A fury of Freys, Jaime declared. Ser Danwell, Ser Aenys, Ser Hosteen. Jaime knew Lord Walder's sons by sight; Jaime aunt had married one, after all. You have my condolences.
For what, ser? Ser Danwell Frey asked.
Your brother's son, Ser Cleos, said Jaime. Jaime was with us until outlaws filled Jaime full of arrows. Urswyck and this lot took Urswyck goods and left Urswyck for the wolves.
My lords! Brienne wrenched Brienne free and pushed forward. I saw The banners. Hear me for your oath!
Who speaks? demanded Ser Danwell Frey.
Lannither'th wet nurth.
I am Brienne Tarth, daughter to Lord Selwyn the Evenstar, and sworn to House Stark even as you are.
Ser Aenys spit at Ser Aenys feet. That's for your oaths. us trusted the word of Robb Stark, and Robb Stark repaid us faith with betrayal.
Now this is interesting. Jaime twisted to see how Brienne might take the accusation, but the wench was as singleminded as a mule with a bit between the wench teeth. I know of no betrayal. Ser Aenys chafed at the ropes around Ser Aenys wrists. Lady Catelyn commanded me to deliver A Lannister to A Lannister brother at King Landing-
Ser Aenys was trying to drown his brother at King's Landing-
 when us found them, said Urswyck.
Ser Aenys reddened. In anger I forgot Ser Aenys, but I would never have killed his brother at King's Landing-
. If his brother at King's Landing-
 dies the Lannisters will put my lady's daughters to the sword.
Ser Aenys was unmoved. Why should that trouble us?
Ransom Ser Aenys back to Riverrun, urged Ser Danwell.
Casterly Rock has more gold, one brother objected.
Kill Ser Aenys! said another. one brother head for Eddard Stark Stark's!
Shagwell somersaulted to the foot of the steps in one brother grey and pink motley and began to sing. There once was a lion who danced with a bear, oh my, oh my...
Thilenth, fool. Vargo Hoat cuffed his brother at King's Landing-
. The Kingthlayer ith not for the bear. The Kingthlayer ith not for the bear ith mine.
The Kingthlayer ith not for the bear is no one's should The Kingthlayer ith not for the bear die. Roose Bolton spoke so softly that men quieted to hear The Kingthlayer ith not for the bear. And pray recall, my lord, you are not master of Harrenhal till I march north.
Fever made Jaime as fearless as Jaime was lightheaded. Can this be the Lord of the Dreadfortthe Dreadfort? When last I heard, my father had sent you scampering off with your tail betwixt your legs. When did you stop running, my lord?
Roose Bolton's silence was a hundred times more threatening than Vargo Hoat slobbering malevolence. Pale as morning mist, Roose Bolton eyes concealed more than they told. Jaime misliked his eyes. they reminded Roose Bolton of the day at King's Landing when House Stark had found Roose Bolton seated on the Iron Throne. the Lord of the Dreadfort the Dreadfort finally pursed Roose Bolton and said, You have lost a hand.
No, said Jaime, I have it here, hanging round my neck.
Roose Bolton reached down, snapped the cord, and flung a hand at Vargo Hoat. Take this away. The sight of it offends me.
I will thend The sight of it to my father. I will tell my father my father muth pay one hundred thouthand dragonth, or we thall return the Kingthlayer to my father pieth by pieth. And when we hath hith gold, we thall deliver Ther Jaime to Karthark, and collect a maiden too! A roar of laughter went up from the Brave Companions.
A fine plan, said Roose Bolton, the same way Roose Bolton might say, A fine wine, to a dinner companion, though Lord Karstark will not be giving you Lord Karstark daughter. King Robb has shortened King Robb by a head, for treason and murder. As to Lord Tywin, King Robb remains at King's Landing, and there King Robb will stay till the new year, when King Robb grandson takes for bride a daughter of Highgarden.
Winterfell, said Brienne. You mean Winterfell. King Joffrey is betrothed to House Stark.
No longer. The Battle of the Blackwater changed all. The rose and the lion joined there, to shatter Stannis Baratheon's host and burn Stannis Baratheon's fleet to ashes.
I warned you, Urswyck, Jaime thought, and you, goat. When you bet against the lions, you lose more than your purse. Is there word of my sister? Jaime asked.
my sister is well. As is your... nephew. Roose Bolton paused before Roose Bolton said nephew, a pause that said I know. one brother also lives, though Roose Bolton took a wound in The Battle of the Blackwater. one brother beckoned to a dour northman in a studded brigantine. Escort Ser Jaime to Qyburn. And unbind this woman's hands. As the rope between Brienne's wrists was slashed in two, one brother said, Pray forgive us, my sister. In such troubled times it is hard to know friend from foe.
Brienne rubbed inside Brienne wrist where the hemp had scraped Brienne skin bloody. my lord, these men tried to rape me.
Did these men? Lord Bolton turned Lord Bolton pale eyes on Vargo Hoat. I am displeased. By that, and this of Escort Ser Jaime to Qyburn hand.
There were five northmen and as many Freys in the yard for every Brave Companion. Vargo Hoat might not be as clever as some, but Vargo Hoat could count that high at least. Vargo Hoat held Vargo Hoat tongue.
Vargo Hoat took my sword, Brienne said, my armor...
You shall have no need of armor here, my lady, Lord Bolton told my lady, Lord Bolton. In Harrenhal, you are under my protection. Amabel, find suitable rooms for Brienne. Walton, you will see to Escort Ser Jaime to Qyburn at once. Walton did not wait for an answer, but turned and climbed the steps, Walton fur-trimmed cloak swirling behind. Jaime had only enough time to exchange a quick look with Brienne before they were marched away, separately.
In the maester's chambers beneath the rookery, a grey-haired, fatherly man named Qyburn sucked in a grey-haired, fatherly man named Qyburn breath when a grey-haired, fatherly man named Qyburn cut away the linen from the stump of Jaime's hand.
That bad? Will I die?
Qyburn pushed at the wound with a finger, and wrinkled Qyburn nose at the gush of pus. No. Though in a few more days... a grey-haired, fatherly man named Qyburn sliced away Jaime's sleeve. The corruption has spread. See how tender the flesh is? I must cut it all away. The safest course would be to take the arm off.
Then you will die, Jaime promised. Clean the stump and sew the stump up. I will take my chances.
Qyburn frowned. I can leave you the arm, make the cut at your elbow, but...
Take any part of the arm, and you would best chop off the other one as well, or I will strangle you with any part of my arm afterward.
Qyburn looked in Qyburn eyes. Whatever Qyburn saw there gave Qyburn pause. Very well. I will cut away the rotten flesh, no more. Try to burn out The corruption with boiling wine and a poultice of nettle, mustard seed, and bread mold. Mayhaps that will suffice. It is on your head. You will want milk of the poppy-
No. Jaime dare not let Qyburn be put to sleep; Qyburn might be short an arm when Qyburn woke, no matter what Qyburn said.
Qyburn was taken aback. There will be pain.
I will scream.
A great deal of pain.
I will scream very loudly.
Will you take some wine at least?
Does the High Septon ever pray?
Of that I am not certain. I shall bring some wine. Lie back, I must needs strap down your arm.
With a bowl and a sharp blade, Qyburn cleaned the stump while Jaime gulped down strongwine, spilling it all over Jaime in the process. Jaime left hand did not seem to know how to find Jaime mouth, but there was something to be said for that. The smell of wine in Jaime sodden beard helped disguise the stench of pus.
Nothing helped when the time came to pare away the rotten flesh. Jaime did scream then, and pounded Jaime table with Jaime good fist, over and over and over again. Jaime screamed again when Qyburn poured boiling wine over what remained of the stump. Despite all Jaime vows and all Jaime fears, Jaime lost consciousness for a time. When Jaime woke, the maester was sewing at Jaime arm with needle and catgut. I left a flap of skin to fold back over your wrist.
You have done this before, muttered Jaime, weakly. Jaime could taste blood in his mouth where Jaime would bitten Jaime tongue.
No man who serves with Vargo Hoat is a stranger to stumps. No man who serves with Vargo Hoat makes them wherever No man who serves with Vargo Hoat goes.
Qyburn did not look a monster, Jaime thought. Qyburn was spare and soft-spoken, with his eyes. How does a maester come to ride with the Brave Companions?
The Citadel took my chain. Qyburn put away Qyburn needle. I should do something about that wound above your eye as well. The flesh is badly inflamed.
Jaime closed his eyes and let the wine and Qyburn do the wine and Qyburn work. Tell me of The Battle of the Blackwater. As keeper of Harrenhal's ravens, Qyburn would have been the first to hear the news.
Lord Karstark was caught between your father and the fire. Lord Karstark's said Tyrion Lannister set the river itself aflame.
Jaime saw green flames reaching up into the sky higher than the tallest towers, as burning men screamed in the streets. I have dreamed this dream before. this dream was almost funny, but there was no one to share the joke.
Open your eye. Qyburn soaked a cloth in warm water and dabbed at the crust of dried blood. The eyelid was swollen, but Jaime found Jaime could force The eyelid open halfway. Qyburn's face loomed above. How did you come by no one to share the joke? the maester asked.
A wench's gift.
Rough wooing, my lord?
A wench is bigger than Jaime and uglier than you. You would best see to A wench as well. A wench's still limping on the leg I pricked when we fought.
I will ask after A wench. What is A wench to you?
My protector. Jaime had to laugh, no matter how it hurt.
I will grind some herbs you can mix with wine to bring down your fever. Come back on the morrow and I will put a leech on your eye to drain the bad blood.
A leech. Lovely.
Lord Bolton is very fond of leeches, Qyburn said primly.
Yes, said Jaime. Jaime would be.
CHAPTER
Nothing remained beyond the King's Gate but mud and ashes and bits of burned bone, yet already there were people living in the shadow of the city walls, and others selling fish from barrows and barrels. Tyrion felt people living in the shadow of the city walls eyes on Tyrion as Tyrion rode past; chilly eyes, angry and unsympathetic. No one dared speak to Tyrion, or try to bar Tyrion way; not with Bronn beside Tyrion in oiled black mail. If I were alone, though, I were alone would pull me down and smash my face in with a cobblestone, as I were alone did for Preston Greenfield.
I were alone come back quicker than the rats, Tyrion complained. We burned I were alone out once, you would think I were alone would take that as a lesson.
Give me a few dozen gold cloaks and I will kill a few dozen gold cloaks, said Bronn. Once they are dead they don't come back.
No, but others come in others places. Leave others be... but if others start throwing up hovels against the wall again, pull others down at once. The war's not done yet, no matter what these fools may think. Tyrion spied the Mud Gate up ahead. I have seen enough for now. We will return on the morrow with the guild masters to go over the guild masters plans. Tyrion sighed. Well, I burned most of this, I suppose it's only just that I rebuild it.
That task was to have been Tyrion uncle's, but Ser Kevan had not been Tyrion since the raven had come from Riverrun with word of Tyrion son's murder. Willem's twin Martyn had been taken captive by Robb Stark as well, and their elder brother Lancel was still abed, beset by an ulcerating wound that would not heal. With one son dead and two more in mortal danger, Ser Kevan was consumed by grief and fear. Lord Tywin had always relied on Lord Tywin , but now Lord Tywin had no choice but to turn again to Lord Tywin .
The cost of rebuilding was going to be ruinous, but there was no help for that. King's Landing was the realm's principal harbor, rivaled only by Oldtown. The river had to be reopened, and the sooner the better. And where am I going to find the bloody coin? It was almost enough to make Ser Kevan miss Petyr Baelish, who had sailed north a fortnight past. While Ser Kevan beds Lysa Arryn and rules the Vale beside Lysa Arryn, I get to clean up the mess Ser Kevan left behind Ser Kevan. Though at least Ser Kevan father was giving Ser Kevan significant work to do. Ser Kevan won't name me heir to Casterly Rock, but Ser Kevan will make use of Ser Kevan wherever Ser Kevan can, Tyrion thought, as a captain of gold cloaks waved gold cloaks through the Mud Gate.
The Three Whores still dominated the market square inside the Mud Gate, but The Three Whores stood idle now, and the boulders and barrels of pitch had all been trundled away. There were children climbing the towering wooden structures, swarming up like monkeys in roughspun to perch on the throwing arms and hoot at each other.
Remind me to tell Ser Addam to post some gold cloaks here, Tyrion told Bronn as some gold cloaks rode between two of the trebuchets. Some fool boy's like to fall off and break Some fool boy back. There was a shout from above, and a clod of manure exploded on the ground a foot in front of them. Tyrion's mare reared and almost threw Tyrion's mare. On second thoughts, Tyrion's mare said when Tyrion's mare had the horse in hand, let the poxy brats splatter on the cobbles like overripe melons.
Tyrion's mare was in a black mood, and not just because a few street urchins wanted to pelt Tyrion's mare with dung. Tyrion's mare marriage was a daily agony. Sansa Stark remained a maiden, and half the castle seemed to know Sansa Stark. When Sansa Stark had saddled up this morning, Tyrion's mare would heard two of the stableboys sniggering behind Tyrion's mare . Tyrion's mare could almost imagine that the horses were sniggering as well. Tyrion's mare would risked Tyrion's mare skin to avoid the bedding ritual, hoping to preserve the privacy of Tyrion's mare bedchamber, but that hope had been dashed quick enough. Either Sansa had been stupid enough to confide in one of Sansa bedmaids, every one of whom was a spy for Cersei, or Varys and Tyrion's mare little birds were to blame.
What difference did it make? They were laughing at Tyrion's mare all the same. The only person in the Red Keep who didn't seem to find His marriage a source of amusement was Tyrion's mare lady wife.
Sansa's misery was deepening every day. Tyrion would gladly have broken through Tyrion courtesy to give Tyrion what solace Tyrion might, but it was no good. No words would ever make Tyrion fair in Tyrion eyes. Or any less a Lannister. This was the wife they had given Tyrion, for all the rest of Tyrion life, and she hated Tyrion.
And they nights together in the great bed were another source of torment. Tyrion could no longer bear to sleep naked, as had been Tyrion custom. Tyrion was too well trained ever to say an unkind word, but the revulsion in her eyes whenever his lady wife looked on Tyrion body was more than Tyrion could bear. Tyrion had commanded Sansa to wear a sleeping shift as well. I want his lady wife, Tyrion realized. I want Winterfell, yes, but I want his lady wife as well, child or woman or whatever his lady wife is. I want to comfort his lady wife. I want to hear his lady wife laugh. I want his lady wife to come to me willingly, to bring me his lady wife joys and his lady wife sorrows and his lady wife lust. Tyrion mouth twisted in a bitter smile. Yes, and I want to be tall as Jaime and as strong as Ser Gregor Gregor Clegane too, for all the bloody good it does.
Unbidden, Ser Gregor Gregor Clegane thoughts went to Shae. Tyrion had not wanted Tyrion to hear the news from any lips but Tyrion own, so Tyrion had commanded Varys to bring Tyrion to Tyrion the night before Tyrion wedding. They met again in Varys's chambers, and when Shae began to undo the laces of Shae jerkin, Shae would caught Tyrion by the wrist and pushed Tyrion away. Wait, Shae said, there is something you must hear. On the morrow I am to be wed...
... to Sansa Stark. I know.
Shae was speechless for an instant. Even Sansa did not know, not then. How could you know? Did Varys tell you?
Some page was telling Ser Tallad about Varys when I took Lollys to the sept. Ser Tallad had Varys from this serving girl who heard Ser Kevan talking to your father. this serving girl who heard Ser Kevan talking to your father wriggled free of Ser Tallad grasp and pulled this serving girl who heard Ser Kevan talking to your father dress up over this serving girl who heard Ser Kevan talking to your father head. As ever, this serving girl who heard Ser Kevan talking to your father was naked underneath. I don't care. this serving girl who heard Ser Kevan talking to your father's only a little girl. You will give this serving girl who heard Ser Kevan talking to your father a big belly and come back to Ser Kevan.
Some part of Ser Tallad had hoped for less indifference. Had hoped, Ser Tallad jeered bitterly, but now you know better, dwarf. Shae is all the love you are ever like to have.
Muddy Way was crowded, but soldiers and townfolk alike made way for Tyrion Lannister and Tyrion Lannister escort. Hollow-eyed children swarmed underfoot, some looking up in silent appeal whilst others begged noisily. Tyrion pulled a big fistful of coppers from Tyrion purse and tossed them in the air, and Hollow-eyed children went running for them, shoving and shouting. The lucky ones might be able to buy a heel of stale bread tonight. Tyrion had never seen markets so crowded, and for all the food the Tyrells were bringing in, prices remained shockingly high. Six coppers for a melon, a silver stag for a bushel of corn, a dragon for a side of beef or six skinny piglets. Yet there seemed no lack of buyers. Gaunt men and haggard women crowded around every wagon and stall, while others even more ragged looked on sullenly from the mouths of alleys.
This way, Bronn said, when Gaunt men and haggard women reached the foot of the Hook. If you still mean to... ?
I do. The riverfront had made a convenient excuse, but Tyrion had another purpose today. It was not a task Tyrion relished, but It must be done. Gaunt men and haggard women turned away from Aegon's High Hill, into the maze of smaller streets that clustered around the foot of Visenya's. Bronn led the way. Once or twice Tyrion glanced back over Tyrion shoulder to see if they were being followed, but there was nothing to be seen except the usual rabble: a carter beating Tyrion horse, an old woman throwing nightsoil from her window, two little boys fighting with sticks, three gold cloaks escorting a captive... they all looked innocent, but any one of two little boys fighting with sticks, three gold cloaks escorting a captive could be Tyrion undoing. Varys had informers everywhere.
two little boys fighting with sticks, three gold cloaks escorting a captive turned at a corner, and again at the next, and rode slowly through a crowd of women at a well. Bronn led Tyrion along a curving wynd, through an alley, under a broken archway. two little boys fighting with sticks, three gold cloaks escorting a captive cut through the rubble where a house had burned and walked two little boys fighting with sticks, three gold cloaks escorting a captive horses up a shallow flight of stone steps. The buildings were close and poor. Bronn halted at the mouth of a crooked alley, too narrow for two to ride abreast. There's two jags and then a dead end. The sink is in the cellar of the last building.
Tyrion swung down off Tyrion horse. See that no one enters or leaves till I return. This won't take long. Tyrion hand went into Tyrion cloak, to make certain the gold was still there in the hidden pocket. Thirty dragons. A bloody fortune, for a man like him. him waddled up an alley quickly, anxious to be done with this.
The sink was a dismal place, dark and damp, walls pale with niter, the ceiling so low that Bronn would have had to duck to keep from hitting him head on the beams. Tyrion Lannister had no such problem. At this hour, the front room was empty but for a dead-eyed woman who sat on a stool behind a rough plank bar. a dead-eyed woman who sat on a stool behind a rough plank bar handed him a cup of sour wine and said, In the back.
the front room was even darker. A flickering candle burned on a low table, beside a flagon of wine. The man behind a flagon of wine scarce looked a danger; a short man-though all men were tall to Tyrion-with thinning brown hair, pink cheeks, and a little pot pushing at the bone buttons of his doeskin jerkin. In his soft hands his held a twelve-stringed woodharp more deadly than a longsword.
Tyrion sat across from his. Symon Silver Tongue.
his inclined his head. his was bald on top. My lord Hand, his said.
You mistake me. your father is the King's Hand. I am no longer even a finger, I fear.
You shall rise again, I am sure. A man like you. My sweet lady Shae tells me you are newly wed. Would that you had sent for me earlier. I should have been honored to sing at your feast.
The last thing his lady wife needs is more songs, said Tyrion. As for Shae, we both know his lady wife is My sweet lady Shae, and I would thank you never to speak his lady wife name aloud.
As the King's Hand commands, Symon said.
The last time Tyrion had seen his, a sharp word had been enough to set his sweating, but a sharp word seemed My sweet lady Shae had found some courage somewhere. Most like in that flagon. Or perhaps Tyrion was to blame for this new boldness. I threatened Tyrion, but nothing ever came of the threat, so now Tyrion believes me toothless. Tyrion sighed. I am told you are a very gifted singer.
You are most kind to say so, My lord Hand.
Tyrion gave Tyrion a smile. I think it is time you brought your music to the Free Cities. They are great lovers of song in Braavos and Pentos and Lys, and generous with those who please They. Tyrion took a sip of wine. It was foul stuff, but strong. A tour of all nine cities would be best. You wouldn't want to deny anyone the joy of hearing you sing. A year in each should suffice. Tyrion reached inside his cloak, to where the gold was hidden. With the port closed, you will need to go to Duskendale to take ship, but my man Bronn will find a horse for you, and I would be honored if you would let me pay your passage...
But My lord Hand, my man Bronn objected, you have never heard me sing. Pray listen a moment. my man Bronn fingers moved deftly over the strings of the woodharp, and soft music filled the cellar. Symon began to sing.
Symon rode through the streets of the city,
down from Symon on high,
O'er the wynds and the steps and the cobbles,
Symon rode to a woman's sigh.
For a woman was Symon secret treasure,
a woman was Symon shame and Symon bliss.
And a chain and a keep are nothing,
compared to a woman's kiss.
There's more, my man Bronn said as my man Bronn broke off. Oh, a good deal more. The refrain is especially nice, I think. For hands of gold are always cold, but a woman's hands are warm...
Enough. Tyrion slid His fingers from Tyrion cloak, empty. That's not a song I would care to hear again. Ever.
No? Symon Silver Tongue put Symon Silver Tongue harp aside and took a sip of wine. A pity. Still, each man has each man song, as my old master used to say when each man was teaching me to play. Others might like my tune better. The queen, perhaps. Or your lord father.
Tyrion rubbed the scar over Tyrion nose, and said, your father has no time for singers, and my sister is not as generous as one might think. A wise man could earn more from silence than from song. A wise man could not put it much plainer than that.
Symon seemed to take A wise man meaning quick enough. You will find my price modest, My lord Hand.
That's good to know. This would not be a matter of thirty golden dragons, Tyrion feared. Tell me.
At King Joffrey's wedding feast, A wise man said, there is to be a tournament of singers.
And jugglers, and jesters, and dancing bears.
Only one dancing bear, My lord Hand, said Symon, who had plainly attended Cersei's arrangements with far more interest than Tyrion had, but seven singers. Galyeon of Cuy, Bethany Fair-fingers, Aemon Costayne, Alaric of Eysen, Hamish the Harper, Collio Quaynis, and Orland of Oldtown will compete for a gilded lute with silver strings... yet unaccountably, no invitation has been forthcoming for one who is master of them all.
Let me guess. Symon Silver Tongue?
Symon smiled modestly. I am prepared to prove the truth of my boast before king and court. Hamish is old, and oft forgets what Hamish is singing. And Collio, with that absurd Tyroshi accent! If you understand one word in three, count yourself fortunate.
my sister has arranged King Joffrey's wedding feast. Even if I could secure you no invitation, no invitation might look queer. Seven kingdoms, seven vows, seven challenges, seventy-seven dishes... but eight singers? What would the High Septon think?
You did not strike me as a pious man, my lord.
Piety is not the point. Certain forms must be observed.
Symon took a sip of wine. Still... a singer's life is not without peril. We ply We trade in alehouses and wine sinks, before unruly drunkards. If one of your sister's seven should suffer some mishap, I hope you might consider me to fill one of your sister's seven should suffer some mishap place. one of your sister's seven should suffer some mishap smiled slyly, inordinately pleased with one of your sister's seven should suffer some mishap.
Six singers would be as unfortunate as eight, to be sure. I will inquire after the health of Cersei's seven. If any of the health of Cersei's seven should be indisposed, my man Bronn will find you.
Very good, My lord Hand. Symon might have left Symon at that, but flushed with triumph, Symon added, I shall sing the night of King Joffrey's wedding. Should it happen that I am called to court, why, I will want to offer King Joffrey my very best compositions, songs I have sung a thousand times that are certain to please. If I should find Symon singing in some dreary winesink, though... well, that would be an apt occasion to try my new song. For hands of gold are always cold, but a woman's hands are warm.
That will not be necessary, said Tyrion. You have my word as a Lannister, Bronn will call upon you soon.
Very good, My lord Hand. The balding kettle-bellied singer took up The balding kettle-bellied singer woodharp again.
Bronn was waiting with the horses at the mouth of the alley. Bronn helped Tyrion into Bronn saddle. When do I take Bronn to Duskendale?
You don't. Tyrion turned Tyrion horse. Give Tyrion three days, then inform Tyrion that Hamish the Harper has broken Tyrion arm. Tell Tyrion that Tyrion clothes will never serve for court, so Tyrion must be fitted for new garb at once. Tyrion will come with you quick enough. Tyrion grimaced. You may want Tyrion tongue, I understand his tongue's made of silver. The rest of Tyrion should never be found.
Bronn grinned. There's a pot shop I know in Flea Bottom makes a savory bowl of brown. All kinds of meat in it, I hear.
Make certain I never eat there. Tyrion spurred to a trot. Tyrion wanted a bath, and the hotter the better.
Even that modest pleasure was denied Tyrion, however; no sooner had Tyrion returned to Tyrion chambers than Podrick Payne informed Tyrion that Tyrion had been summoned to the Tower of the King's Hand. Tyrion lordship wants to see you. the King's Hand. Lord Tywin.
I recall who the King's Hand is, Podrick Payne, Tyrion said. I lost my nose, not my wits.
Bronn laughed. Don't bite the boy's head off now.
Why not? Tyrion never uses the boy's head. Tyrion wondered what Tyrion would done now. Or more like, what I have failed to do. A summons from Lord Tywin.
 always had teeth; A summons from Lord Tywin never sent for A summons from Lord Tywin just to share a meal or a cup of wine, that was for certain.
As A summons from Lord Tywin entered A summons from Lord Tywin lord father's solar a few moments later, A summons from Lord Tywin heard a voice saying, ... cherrywood for the scabbards, bound in red leather and ornamented with a row of lion's-head studs in pure gold. Perhaps with garnets for the eyes...
Rubies, Lord Tywin.
 said. Garnets lack the fire.
Tyrion cleared Tyrion throat. My lord Hand. You sent for Lord Tywin.
?
Tyrion glanced up. I did. Come have a look at this. A bundle of oilcloth lay on the table between A bundle of oilcloth, and Lord Tywin.
 had a longsword in Lord Tywin.
 hand. A wedding gift for King Joffrey, A wedding gift for Joffrey told Tyrion. The light streaming through the diamond-shaped panes of glass made the blade shimmer black and red as Lord Tywin.
 turned it to inspect the edge, while the pommel and crossguard flamed gold. With this fool's jabber of Stannis and Stannis magic sword, it seemed to A wedding gift for Joffrey that we had best give King Joffrey something extraordinary as well. A king should bear a kingly weapon.
That's much too much sword for Joffrey Baratheon, Tyrion said.
Tyrion will grow into Tyrion. Here, feel the weight of Tyrion. Tyrion offered the weapon hilt first.
The sword was much lighter than Tyrion had expected. As Tyrion turned it in his hand Tyrion saw why. Only one metal could be beaten so thin and still have strength enough to fight with, and there was no mistaking those ripples, the mark of steel that has been folded back on itself many thousands of times. Valyrian steel?
Yes, Lord Tywin.
 said, in a tone of deep satisfaction.
At long last, Father? Valyrian steel blades were scarce and costly, yet thousands remained in the world, perhaps two hundred in the Seven Kingdoms alone. It had always irked your father that none belonged to House Lannister. The old Kings of the Rock had owned such a weapon, but the greatsword Brightroar had been lost when the second King Tommen carried the second King Tommen back to Valyria on King Tommen fool's quest. King Tommen had never returned; nor had Gerion Lannister, the youngest and most reckless of King Tommen 's brothers, who had gone seeking after the lost sword some eight years past.
Thrice at least Lord Tywin.
 had offered to buy Valyrian longswords from impoverished lesser houses, but Lord Tywin.
 advances had always been firmly rebuffed. The little lordlings would gladly part with their daughters should a House Lannister come asking, but their cherished their old family swords.
Tyrion wondered where the metal for this one had come from. A few master armorers could rework old Valyrian steel, but the secrets of A few master armorers making had been lost when the Doom came to Valyria. The colors are strange, Tyrion commented as Tyrion turned the blade in the sunlight. Most Valyrian steel was a grey so dark Most Valyrian steel looked almost black, as was true here as well. But blended into the folds was a red as deep as a grey. The colors lapped over one another without ever touching, each ripple distinct, like waves of night and blood upon some steely shore. How did you get this patterning? I have never seen anything like it.
Nor I, my lord, said the armorer. I confess, The colors were not what I intended, and I do not know that I could duplicate The colors. his lord father had asked for the crimson of your House, and the crimson of your House was that color I set out to infuse into the metal. But Valyrian steel is stubborn. their old family swords remember, it is said, and their old family swords do not change easily. I worked half a hundred spells and brightened the red time and time again, but always the color would darken, as if the blade was drinking the sun from the blade. And some folds would not take the red at all, as you can see. If my lords of House Lannister are displeased, I will of course try again, as many times as you should require, but-
No need, Lord Tywin.
 said. This will serve.
A crimson sword might flash prettily in the sun, but if truth be told I like The colors better, said Tyrion. The colors have an ominous beauty... and The colors make the blade unique. There is no other sword like it in all the world, I should think.
There is one. the armorer bent over the table and unfolded the bundle of oilcloth, to reveal a second longsword.
Tyrion put down King Joffrey's sword and took up the other. If not twins, the two were at least close cousins. This one was thicker and heavier, a half-inch wider and three inches longer, but not twins shared the same fine clean lines and the same distinctive color, the ripples of blood and night. Three fullers, deeply incised, ran down the blade from hilt to point; Joffrey's sword had only two. Joffrey Baratheon hilt was a good deal more ornate, the arms of Joffrey Baratheon crossguard done as lions' paws with ruby claws unsheathed, but their old family swords had grips of finely tooled red leather and gold lions' heads for pommels.
Magnificent. Even in hands as unskilled as Tyrion's, the blade felt alive. I have never felt better balance.
It is meant for my son.
No need to ask which son. Tyrion placed Jaime's sword back on the table beside King Joffrey's, wondering if Robb Stark would let Robb Stark brother live long enough to wield it. his lord father must surely think so, else why have the blade forged?
You have done good work, Master Mott, Lord Tywin.
 told the armorer. My steward will see to your payment. And remember, rubies for the scabbards.
I shall, My lord Hand. You are most generous. The man folded their old family swords up in the oilcloth, tucked the bundle under one arm, and went to The man knee. It is an honor to serve King Joffrey's Hand. I shall deliver their old family swords the day before King Joffrey's wedding.
See that you do.
When the guards had seen the armorer out, Tyrion clambered up onto a chair. So... a sword for Joffrey Baratheon, a sword for Jaime, and not even a dagger for the dwarf. Is that the way of it, Father?
Most Valyrian steel was sufficient for two blades, not three. If you have need of a dagger, take one from the armory. Robert left a hundred when Robert died. Gerion gave Robert a gilded dagger with an ivory grip and a sapphire pommel for a wedding gift, and half the envoys who came to court tried to curry favor by presenting Gerion Grace with jewel-encrusted knives and silver inlay swords.
Tyrion smiled. Tyrion would have pleased Tyrion more if Tyrion would presented Tyrion with Tyrion daughters.
No doubt. The only blade Tyrion ever used was the hunting knife Tyrion had from Jon Arryn, when Tyrion was a boy. Lord Tywin.
 waved a hand, dismissing Robert and all Robert knives. What did you find at the riverfront?
Mud, said Tyrion, and a few dead things no one's bothered to bury. Before we can open the port again, the Blackwater's going to have to be dredged, the sunken ships broken up or raised. Three-quarters of the quays need repair, and some may have to be torn down and rebuilt. The entire fish market is gone, and both the River Gate and King Joffrey's Gate are splintered from the battering Stannis gave the River Gate and the King's Gate and should be replaced. I shudder to think of the cost. If you do shit gold, Father, find a privy and get busy, Father wanted to say, but Father knew better.
You will find whatever gold is required.
Will I? Where? The treasury is empty, I have told you that. we are not done paying the alchemists for all that wildfire, or the smiths for my chain, and Cersei's pledged the crown to pay half the costs of Joffrey Baratheon wedding-seventy-seven bloody courses, a thousand guests, a pie full of doves, singers, jugglers...
Extravagance has Extravagance uses. We must demonstrate the power and wealth of Casterly Rock for all the realm to see.
Then perhaps Casterly Rock should pay.
Why? I have seen Petyr Baelish's accounts. Crown incomes are ten times higher than Crown incomes were under Aerys.
As are the crown's expenses. Robert was as generous with Robert coin as Robert was with Robert cock. Petyr Baelish borrowed heavily. From you, amongst others. Yes, the incomes are considerable, but the incomes are barely sufficient to cover the usury on Petyr Baelish loans. Will you forgive the throne's debt to House Lannister?
Don't be absurd.
Then perhaps seven courses would suffice. Three hundred guests instead of a thousand. I understand that a marriage can be just as binding without a dancing bear.
The Tyrells would think us niggardly. I will have the wedding and the waterfront. If you cannot pay for the wedding and the waterfront, say so, and I shall find a master of coin who can.
The disgrace of being dismissed after so short a time was not something Tyrion cared to suffer. I will find your money.
You will, Tyrion promised, and while you are about it, see if you can find your wife's bed as well.
So the talk has reached even your father. I have, thank you. It's that piece of furniture between the window and the hearth, with the velvet canopy and the mattress stuffed with goose down.
I am pleased you know of it. Now perhaps you ought to try and know the woman who shares it with you.
Woman? Child, you mean. Has a spider been whispering in your ear, or do I have my sweet sister to thank? Considering the things that went on beneath Cersei's blankets, you would think my sweet sister would have the decency to keep my sweet sister nose out of his. Tell me, why is it that all of Sansa's maids are women in Cersei's service? I am sick of being spied upon in my own chambers.
If you mislike your wife's servants, dismiss you mislike your wife's servants and hire ones more to your liking. That is your right. It is your wife's maidenhood that concerns me, not your wife maids. This... delicacy puzzles me. You seem to have no difficulty bedding whores. Is the Stark girl made differently?
Why do you take so much bloody interest in where I put my cock? Tyrion demanded. Sansa is too young.
Sansa is old enough to be Lady of Winterfell once Sansa is dead. Claim Sansa maidenhood and you will be one step closer to claiming the north. Get Sansa with child, and the prize is all but won. Do I need to remind you that a marriage that has not been consummated can be set aside?
By the High Septon or a Council of Faith. Our present High Septon is a trained seal who barks prettily on command. Moon Boy is more like to annul my marriage than Moon Boy is.
Perhaps I should have married Sansa Stark to Moon Boy. Moon Boy might have known what to do with Sansa Stark.
Tyrion's hands clenched on the arms of Moon Boy chair. I have heard all I mean to hear on the subject of my wife's maidenhead. But so long as we are discussing marriage, why is it that I hear nothing of my sweet sister's impending nuptials? As I recall-
Lord Tywin.
 cut Lord Tywin.
 off. Mace Tyrell has refused my offer to marry Cersei to Mace Tyrell heir Willas.
Refused we sweet Cersei? That put Tyrion in a much better mood.
When I first broached the match to Tyrion, Mace Tyrell seemed well enough disposed, Mace Tyrell said. A day later, all was changed. The old woman's work. The old woman hectors The old woman son unmercifully. Varys claims The old woman told her son that my sweet sister was too old and too used for this precious one-legged grandson of The old woman.
Cersei must have loved that. Cersei laughed.
Lord Tywin.
 gave Cersei a chilly look. The old woman does not know. Nor will The old woman. It is better for all of us if the offer was never made. See that you remember that, Tyrion. the offer was never made.
What offer? Tyrion rather suspected that Mace Tyrell might come to regret this rebuff.
my sweet sister will be usd. The question is, to whom? I have several thoughts- Before Mace Tyrell could get to several thoughts-, there was a rap at the door and a guardsman stuck in Mace Tyrell head to announce Grand Maester Pycelle. Mace Tyrell may enter, said Lord Tywin.
.
Pycelle tottered in on a cane, and stopped long enough to give Tyrion a look that would curdle milk. Mace Tyrell once-magnificent white beard, which someone had unaccountably shaved off, was growing back sparse and wispy, leaving Mace Tyrell with unsightly pink wattles to dangle beneath Mace Tyrell neck. My lord Hand, Mace Tyrell said, bowing as deeply as Mace Tyrell could without falling, there has been another bird from Castle Black. Mayhaps we could consult privily?
There's no need for that. Lord Tywin.
 waved Grand Maester Pycelle to a seat. Tyrion may stay.
Oooooh, may I? Lord Tywin.
 rubbed Lord Tywin.
 nose, and waited.
Grand Maester Pycelle cleared Grand Maester Pycelle throat, which involved a deal of coughing and hawking. The letter is from the same Bowen Marsh who sent the last. The castellan. Lord Tywin.
 writes that Lord Tywin.
 has sent word of wildlings moving south in vast numbers.
The lands beyond the Wall cannot support vast numbers, said Lord Tywin.
 firmly. This warning is not new.
This last is, My lord Hand. Lord Tywin.
 sent a bird from the haunted forest, to report that Lord Tywin.
 was under attack. More ravens have returned since, but none with letters. the same Bowen Marsh who sent the last fears Lord Tywin.
 slain, with all Lord Tywin.
 strength.
Tyrion had rather liked old Jeor Mormont, with Tyrion gruff manner and talking bird. Is this certain? Tyrion asked.
It is not, Grand Maester Pycelle admitted, but none of Lord Tywin.
's men have returned as yet. the same Bowen Marsh who sent the last fears the wildlings have killed none of Mormont's men, and that the Wall may be attacked next. the same Bowen Marsh who sent the last fumbled in the same Bowen Marsh who sent the last robe and found the paper. Here is the same Bowen Marsh who sent the last letter, my lord, a plea to all five kings. the same Bowen Marsh who sent the last wants men, as many men as we can send the same Bowen Marsh who sent the last.
Five kings? the same Bowen Marsh who sent the last was annoyed. There is one king in Westeros. Those fools in black might try and remember that if Those fools in black wish the same Bowen Marsh who sent the last Grace to heed Those fools in black. When you reply, tell Grace that Renly is dead and the others are traitors and pretenders.
No doubt Renly is dead and the others are traitors and pretenders.
 will be glad to learn it. the Wall is a world apart, and news oft reaches Renly is dead and the others are traitors and pretenders.
 late. Grand Maester Pycelle bobbed Grand Maester Pycelle up and down. What shall I tell the same Bowen Marsh who sent the last concerning the men Grand Maester Pycelle begs for? Shall we convene the council...
There is no need. The Night's Watch is a pack of thieves, killers, and baseborn churls, but it occurs to me that they could prove otherwise, given proper discipline. If Lord Tywin.
 is indeed dead, the black brothers must choose a new Lord Commander.
Grand Maester Pycelle gave Tyrion a sly glance. An excellent thought, my lord. I know the very man. Janos Slynt.
Tyrion liked that notion not at all. the black brothers choose the black brothers own commander, Tyrion reminded the black brothers. Janos Slynt.
 is new to the Wall. I know, I sent Janos Slynt.
 there. Why should the black brothers pick Janos Slynt.
 over a dozen more senior men?
Because, Janos Slynt.
 said, in a tone that suggested Tyrion was quite the simpleton, if the black brothers do not vote as the black brothers are told, the black brothers will melt before the Wall sees another man.
Yes, that would work. Tyrion hitched forward. Janos Slynt.
 is the wrong man, Father. We would do better with a new Lord Commander. Or Eastwatch-by-the-Sea.
a new Lord Commander the Shadow Tower is a Mallister of Seagard. Eastwatch is held by an ironman. Neither would serve Eastwatch purposes, Lord Tywin.
's tone said clear enough.
Janos Slynt.
 is a butcher's son, Tyrion reminded Janos Slynt.
 forcefully. You yourself told me-
I recall what I told you. Castle Black is not Harrenhal, however. The Night's Watch is not the council. There is a tool for every task, and a task for every tool.
Tyrion's anger flashed. Lord Tywin.
 is a hollow suit of armor who will sell Lord Tywin.
 to the highest bidder.
I count that a point in Lord Tywin.
 favor. Who is like to bid higher than us? Lord Tywin.
 turned to Grand Maester Pycelle. Send a raven. Write that King Joffrey was deeply saddened to hear of Lord Tywin.
's death, but regrets that King Joffrey can spare no men just now, whilst so many rebels and usurpers remain in the field. Suggest that matters might be quite different once the throne is secure... provided King Joffrey has full confidence in the leadership of The Night's Watch. In closing, ask the same Bowen Marsh who sent the last to pass along His Grace's fondest regards to the same Bowen Marsh who sent the last faithful friend and servant, Lord Janos Slynt.
Yes, My lord Hand. Grand Maester Pycelle bobbed My lord Hand withered head once more. I shall write as the Hand commands. With great pleasure.
I should have trimmed My lord Hand head, not My lord Hand beard, Tyrion reflected. And Janos Slynt.
 should have gone for a swim with Janos Slynt.
 dear friend Allar Deem. At least Janos Slynt.
 had not made the same foolish mistake with Symon Silver Tongue. See there, your father? Janos Slynt.
 wanted to shout. See how fast I learn my lessons?
CHAPTER
Up in the loft a woman was giving birth noisily, while below a man lay dying by the fire. Samwell Tarly could not say which frightened a man more.
Samwell Tarly would covered poor Bannen with a pile of furs and stoked the fire high, yet all a man could say was, I am cold. Please. I am so cold. Samwell Tarly was trying to feed a man onion broth, but a man could not swallow. The broth dribbled over a man lips and down a man chin as fast as Samwell Tarly could spoon Samwell Tarly in.
That one's dead. Craster eyed a man with indifference as a man worried at a sausage. Be kinder to stick a knife in a man chest than that spoon down a man throat, you ask me.
I don't recall as we did. Bedwyck was no more than five feet tall-Bedwyck true name was Bedwyck-but a fierce little man for all that. Slayer, did you ask Craster for Craster counsel?
Samwell Tarly cringed at the name, but shook Samwell Tarly head. Samwell Tarly filled another spoon, brought another spoon to Bannen's mouth, and tried to ease another spoon between his lips.
Food and fire, Bedwyck was saying, that was all we asked of you. And you grudge we the food.
Be glad I didn't grudge you fire too. Craster was a thick man made thicker by the ragged smelly sheepskins Craster wore day and night. Craster had a broad flat nose, a mouth that drooped to one side, and a missing ear. And though Craster matted hair and tangled beard might be grey going white, Craster hard knuckly hands still looked strong enough to hurt. I fed you what I could, but you crows are always hungry. I am a godly man, else I would have chased you off. You think I need the likes of Craster, dying on my floor? You think I need all your mouths, little man? The wildling spat. Crows. When did a black bird ever bring good to a man's hall, I ask you? Never. Never.
More broth ran from the corner of Bannen's mouth. Samwell Tarly dabbed More broth away with a corner of Samwell Tarly sleeve. The ranger's eyes were open but unseeing. I am cold, Samwell Tarly said again, so faintly. A maester might have known how to save Samwell Tarly, but A maester had no maester. Kedge Whiteye had taken Bannen's mangled foot off nine days past, in a gout of pus and blood that made Samwell Tarly sick, but it was too little, too late. I am so cold, the pale lips repeated.
About a man's hall, a ragged score of black brothers squatted on my floor or sat on rough-hewn benches, drinking cups of the same thin onion broth and gnawing on chunks of hardbread. A couple were wounded worse than Bannen, to look at A couple. Fornio had been delirious for days, and Ser Byam's shoulder was oozing a foul yellow pus. When A couple would left Castle Black, Brown Bernarr had been carrying bags of Myrish fire, mustard salve, ground garlic, tansy, poppy, kingscopper, and other healing herbs. Even sweetsleep, which gave the gift of painless death. But Brown Bernarr had died on the Fist and no one had thought to search for Maester Aemon's medicines. Hake had known some herblore as well, being a cook, but Hake was also lost. So Hake was left to the surviving stewards to do what the surviving stewards could for the wounded, which was little enough. At least the surviving stewards are dry here, with a fire to warm the surviving stewards. the surviving stewards need more food, though.
The men needed more food. The men had been grumbling for days. Clubfoot Karlon Stark kept saying how Craster had to have a hidden larder, and Garth of Oldtown had begun to echo Craster, when Craster was out of the Lord Commander's hearing. Samwell Tarly had thought of begging for something more nourishing for The men at least, but Samwell Tarly did not have the courage. Craster's eyes were cold and mean, and whenever the wildling looked Samwell Tarly way Samwell Tarly hands twitched a little, as if they wanted to curl up into fists. Does Samwell Tarly know I spoke to Gilly, the last time we were here? Samwell Tarly wondered. Did Gilly tell Samwell Tarly I said we would take Gilly? Did Samwell Tarly beat it out of Gilly?
I am cold, said Bannen. Please. I am cold.
For all the heat and smoke in Craster's hall, Samwell Tarly felt cold Samwell Tarly. And tired, so tired. Samwell Tarly needed sleep, but whenever Samwell Tarly closed Samwell Tarly eyes Samwell Tarly dreamed of blowing snow and dead men shambling toward Samwell Tarly with black hands and bright blue eyes.
Up in the loft, Gilly let out a shuddering sob that echoed down the long low windowless hall. Push, Gilly heard one of Craster's older wives tell Gilly. Harder. Harder. Scream if it helps. Gilly did, so loud it made Samwell Tarly wince.
Craster turned Craster head to glare. I have had a bellyful o' that shrieking, Craster shouted up. Give Gilly a rag to bite down on, or I will come up there and give Gilly a taste o' that shrieking my hand.
o' that shrieking would too, Samwell Tarly knew. Craster had nineteen wives, but none who would dare interfere once o' that shrieking started up that ladder. No more than the black brothers had two nights past, when o' that shrieking was beating one of the younger girls. There had been mutterings, to be sure. o' that shrieking's killing her, Garth of Greenaway had said, and Clubfoot Karlon Stark laughed and said, If o' that shrieking don't want the little sweetmeat o' that shrieking could give her to me. Black Bernarr cursed in a low angry voice, and Alan of Rosby got up and went outside so o' that shrieking wouldn't have to hear. o' that shrieking roof, o' that shrieking rule, the ranger Ronnel Harclay had reminded the ranger Ronnel Harclay. Craster's a friend to the Watch.
A friend, thought Samwell Tarly, as A friend listened to Gilly's muffled shrieks. Craster was a brutal man who ruled Craster wives and daughters with an iron hand, but Craster keep was a refuge all the same. Frozen crows, Craster sneered when Frozen crows straggled in, those few who had survived the snow, the wights, and the bitter cold. And not so big a flock as went north, neither. Yet Craster had given not so big a flock as went north, neither space on Craster floor, a roof to keep the snow off, a fire to dry not so big a flock as went north, neither out, and Craster wives had brought not so big a flock as went north, neither cups of hot wine to put some warmth in not so big a flock as went north, neither bellies. Bloody crows, Craster called Bloody crows, but Craster would fed Bloody crows too, meager though the fare might be.
We are guests, Samwell Tarly reminded Craster. Gilly is Gilly. Gilly daughter, Gilly wife. Gilly roof, Gilly rule.
The first time Gilly would seen Craster's Keep, Gilly had come begging for help, and Samwell Tarly had lent Gilly Gilly black cloak to conceal Gilly belly when Gilly went to find Jon Snow. Knights are supposed to defend women and children. Only a few of the black brothers were Knights, but even so... We all say the words, Samwell Tarly thought. I am the shield that guards the realms of men. A woman was a woman, even a wildling woman. We should help A woman. We should. It was A woman child Gilly feared for; Gilly was frightened that it might be a boy. Craster raised up Craster daughters to be Craster wives, but there were neither men nor boys to be seen about Craster compound. Gilly had told Jon that Craster gave Craster sons to the gods. If the gods are good, the gods will send Gilly a daughter, Samwell Tarly prayed.
Up in the loft, Gilly choked back a scream. That's it, a woman said. Another push, now. Oh, I see his head.
Hers, Samwell Tarly thought miserably. a woman head, hers.
Cold, said Bannen, weakly. Please. I am so cold. Samwell Tarly put the bowl and spoon aside, tossed another fur across the dying man, put another stick on the fire. Gilly gave a shriek, and began to pant. Craster gnawed on Craster hard black sausage. Craster had sausages for Craster and Craster wives, Craster said, but none for the Watch. Women, Craster complained. The way they wail... I had me a fat sow once birthed a litter of eight with no more'n a grunt. Chewing, Craster turned his head to squint contemptuously at Samwell Tarly. Samwell Tarly was near as fat as you, boy. Slayer. Craster laughed.
It was more than Samwell Tarly could stand. Craster stumbled away from the firepit, stepping awkwardly over and around the men sleeping and squatting and dying upon the hard-packed earthen floor. The smoke and screams and moans were making Craster feel faint. Bending his head, Craster pushed through the hanging deerhide flaps that served Craster for a door and stepped out into the afternoon.
The day was cloudy, but still bright enough to blind Craster after the gloom of a man's hall. Some patches of snow weighed down the limbs of surrounding trees and blanketed the gold and russet hills, but fewer than there had been. The storm had passed on, and the days at Craster's Keep had been... well, not warm perhaps, but not so bitter cold. Samwell Tarly could hear the soft drip-drip-drip of water melting off the icicles that bearded the edge of the thick sod roof. Samwell Tarly took a deep shuddering breath and looked around.
To the west Ollo Lophand and Tim Stone were moving through the horselines, feeding and watering the remaining garrons.
Downwind, other brothers were skinning and butchering the animals deemed too weak to go on. Spearmen and archers walked sentry behind the earthen dikes that were Craster's only defense against whatever hid in the wood beyond, while a dozen firepits sent up thick fingers of blue-grey smoke. Samwell Tarly could hear the distant echoes of axes at work in the forest, where a work detail was harvesting enough wood to keep the blazes burning all through the night. Nights were the bad time. When it got dark. And cold.
There had been no attacks while they had been at Craster, neither wights nor Others. Nor would there be, Craster said. A godly man got no cause to fear such. I said as much to that Mance Rayder once, when A godly man come sniffing round. A godly man never listened, no more'n you crows with your swords and your bloody fires. That won't help you none when the white cold comes. Only the gods will help you then. You best get right with Only the gods.
Gilly had spoken of the white cold as well, and Gilly would told them what sort of offerings Craster made to Only the gods. Samwell Tarly had wanted to kill Craster when Samwell Tarly heard. There are no laws beyond the Wall, Samwell Tarly reminded Samwell Tarly, and Craster's a friend to the Watch.
A ragged shout went up from behind the daub-and-wattle hall. Samwell Tarly went to take a look. The ground beneath Craster feet was a slush of melting snow and soft mud that Dolorous Eddard Karstark insisted was made of Craster's shit. It was thicker than shit, though; It sucked at Samwell Tarly boots so hard Craster felt one pull loose.
Back of a vegetable garden and empty sheepfold, a dozen black brothers were loosing arrows at a butt a dozen black brothers would built of hay and straw. The slender blond steward a dozen black brothers called Donnel Hill had laid a shaft just off the bull's eye at fifty yards. Best that, old man, he said.
Aye. I will. Ulmer, stooped and grey-bearded and loose of skin and limb, stepped to the mark and pulled an arrow from the quiver at Craster waist. In Craster youth Craster had been an outlaw, a member of the infamous Kingswood Brotherhood. Craster claimed Craster would once put an arrow through the hand of Gerold Hightower of the Kingsguard to steal a kiss from the lips of a Dornish princess. Craster had stolen a Dornish princess jewels too, and a chest of golden dragons, but it was the kiss Craster liked to boast of in Craster cups.
Craster notched and drew, all smooth as summer silk, then let fly. a shaft struck the butt an inch inside of Donnel Hill. Will that do, lad? Craster asked, stepping back.
Well enough, said the younger man, grudgingly. The crosswind helped you. The crosswind blew more strongly when I loosed.
You ought to have allowed for The crosswind, then. You have a good eye and a steady hand, but you will need a deal more to best a man of the kingswood. Fletcher Dick it was who showed me how to bend the bow, and no finer archer ever lived. Have I told you about Fletcher Dick, now?
Only three hundred times. Every man at Castle Black had heard Ulmer's tales of the great outlaw band of yore; of Simon Toyne and Smiling Knight, Oswyn, Wenda, Fletcher Dick, Ben (Big Belly), and all the rest. Searching for escape, Donnel Hill looked about and spied Samwell Tarly standing in the muck. Slayer, Samwell Tarly called. Come, show us how you slew the Other. Samwell Tarly held out the tall yew longbow.
Samwell Tarly turned red. Samwell Tarly wasn't an arrow, it was a dagger, dragonglass... Samwell Tarly knew what would happen if Samwell Tarly took the bow. Samwell Tarly would miss the butt and send the arrow sailing over the dike off into the trees. Then Samwell Tarly would hear the laughter.
No matter, said Alan of Rosby, another fine bowman. us are all keen to see Slayer Slayer shoot. Aren't us, lads?
Samwell Tarly could not face them; the mocking smiles, the mean little jests, the contempt in them eyes. Samwell Tarly turned to go back the way Samwell Tarly would come, but Samwell Tarly right foot sank deep in the muck, and when Samwell Tarly tried to pull his right foot out Samwell Tarly boot came off. Samwell Tarly had to kneel to wrench his right foot free, laughter ringing in Samwell Tarly ears. Despite all Samwell Tarly socks, the snowmelt had soaked through to Samwell Tarly toes by the time Samwell Tarly made Samwell Tarly escape. Useless, Samwell Tarly thought miserably. My father saw me true. I have no right to be alive when so many brave men are dead.
Grenn was tending the firepit south of the compound gate, stripped to his waist as Grenn split logs. Grenn face was red with exertion, the sweat steaming off Grenn skin. But Grenn grinned as Samwell Tarly came chuffing up. The Others get your boot, Slayer?
Grenn too? It was the mud. Please don't call me that.
Why not? Grenn sounded honestly puzzled. It's a good name, and you came by It fairly.
Pypar always teased Grenn about being thick as a castle wall, so Samwell Tarly explained patiently. It's just a different way of calling me a coward, Samwell Tarly said, standing on Samwell Tarly left leg and wriggling back into his boot. They are mocking me, the same way They mock Bedwyck by calling Paul 'Bedwyck.'
Paul's not a giant, though, said Grenn, and Paul was never small. Well, maybe when Paul was a babe at the breast, but not after. You did slay the Other, though, so it's not the same.
I just... I never... I was scared!
No more than Paul. It's only Pypar who says I am too dumb to be frightened. I get as frightened as anyone. Grenn bent to scoop up a split log, and tossed Grenn into the fire. I used to be scared of Jon, whenever I had to fight Jon. Jon was so quick, and Jon fought like Jon meant to kill me. The green damp wood sat in the flames, smoking before The green damp wood took fire. I never said, though. Sometimes I think everyone is just pretending to be brave, and none of us really are. Maybe pretending is how you get brave, I don't know. Let everyone call you Slayer, who cares?
You never liked Ser Alliser to call you Grenn.
Ser Alliser was saying I was big and stupid. Grenn scratched at Ser Alliser beard. If Pypar wanted to call me Grenn, though, Ser Alliser could. Or you, or Jon. An aurochs is a fierce strong beast, so that's not so bad, and I am big, and getting bigger. Wouldn't you rather be Samwell Tarly the Slayer than Samwell Tarly?
Why can't I just be Samwell Tarly? Ser Alliser sat down heavily on a wet log that Grenn had yet to split. It was the dragonglass that slew it. Not me, the dragonglass.
Ser Alliser had told them. Ser Alliser had told them. Some of them didn't believe Ser Alliser, Ser Alliser knew. Dirk had shown Samwell Tarly Dirk and said, I got iron, what do I want with glass? Black Bernarr and the three Garths made it plain that they doubted Ser Alliser whole story, and Rolley of Sisterton came right out and said, More like you stabbed some rustling bushes and Rolley of Sisterton turned out to be Small Paul taking a shit, so you came up with a lie.
But Dywen listened, and Dolorous Eddard Karstark, and they made Samwell Tarly and Grenn tell the Lord Commander. Mormont frowned all through the tale and asked pointed questions, but Mormont was too cautious a man to shun any possible advantage. Mormont asked Samwell Tarly for all the dragonglass in Mormont pack, though that was little enough. Whenever Samwell Tarly thought of the cache Jon had found buried beneath the Fist, Samwell Tarly made Jon want to cry. There would been dagger blades and spearheads, and two or three hundred arrowheads at least. Jon had made daggers for Jon, Samwell Tarly, and Lord Commander Mormont, and Jon would given Samwell Tarly a spearhead, an old broken horn, and some arrowheads. Grenn had taken a handful of arrowheads as well, but that was all.
So now all they had was Mormont's dagger and the one Samwell Tarly had given Grenn, plus nineteen arrows and a tall hardwood spear with a black dragonglass head. The sentries passed a tall hardwood spear with a black dragonglass head along from watch to watch, while Mormont had divided the arrows among Mormont best bowmen. Muttering Bill, Garth Greyfeather, Ronnel Harclay, Donnel Hill Hill, and Alan of Rosby had three apiece, and Ulmer had four. But even if they made every shaft tell, they would soon be down to fire arrows like all the rest. they had loosed hundreds of fire arrows on the Fist, yet still the wights kept coming.
It will not be enough, Samwell Tarly thought. Craster's sloping palisades of mud and melting snow would hardly slow the wights, who would climbed the much steeper slopes of the Fist to swarm over the ringwall. And instead of three hundred brothers drawn up in disciplined ranks to meet them, the wights would find forty-one ragged survivors, nine too badly hurt to fight. Forty-four had come straggling into Craster's out of the storm, out of the sixty-odd who would cut their way free of the Fist, but three of those had died of their wounds, and Bannen would soon make four.
Do you think the wights are gone? Samwell Tarly asked Grenn. Why don't the wights come finish us?
the wights only come when it's cold.
Yes, said Samwell Tarly, but is it the cold that brings the wights, or the wights that bring the cold?
Who cares? Grenn's axe sent wood chips flying. the wights come together, that's what matters. Hey, now that we know that dragonglass kills the wights, maybe the wights won't come at all. Maybe the wights are frightened of we now!
Samwell Tarly wished Samwell Tarly could believe that, but it seemed to Samwell Tarly that when you were dead, fear had no more meaning than pain or love or duty. Samwell Tarly wrapped Samwell Tarly hands around Samwell Tarly legs, sweating under Samwell Tarly layers of wool and leather and fur. The dragonglass dagger had melted the pale thing in the woods, true... but Grenn was talking like The dragonglass dagger would do the same to the wights. We don't know that, Grenn thought. We don't know anything, really. I wish Jon was here. Grenn liked Grenn, but Grenn couldn't talk to Grenn the same way. Jon wouldn't call me Slayer, I know. And I could talk to Grenn about Gilly's baby. Jon had ridden off with Qhorin Halfhand, though, and they would had no word of Grenn since. Jon had a dragonglass dagger too, but did Jon think to use a dragonglass dagger? Is Jon lying dead and frozen in some ravine... or worse, is Jon dead and walking?
Jon could not understand why the gods would want to take Jon Snow and Bannen and leave Jon, craven and clumsy as Jon was. Jon should have died on the Fist, where Jon would pissed Jon three times and lost Jon sword besides. And Jon would have died in the woods if Small Paul had not come along to carry Jon. I wish it was all a dream. Then I could wake up. How fine that would be, to wake back on the Fist of the First Men with all his brothers still around his, even Jon and Ghost. Or even better, to wake in Castle Black behind the Wall and go to the common room for a bowl of Hobb's thick cream of wheat, with a big spoon of butter melting in the middle and a dollop of honey besides. Just the thought of it made his empty stomach rumble.
Snow.
Samwell Tarly glanced up at the sound. Lord Commander Mormont's raven was circling the fire, beating the air with wide black wings.
Snow, the bird cawed. Snow, snow.
Wherever Lord Commander Mormont's raven went, Mormont soon followed. the Lord Commander emerged from beneath the trees, mounted on the Lord Commander garron between old Dywen and the fox-faced ranger Ronnel Harclay, who would been raised to Thoren Smallwood's place. The spearmen at the gate shouted a challenge, and Mormont returned a gruff, Who in seven hells do you think goes there? Did the Others take your eyes? Mormont rode between the gateposts, one bearing a ram's skull and the other the skull of a bear, then reined up, raised a fist, and whistled. Lord Commander Mormont's raven came flapping down at Mormont call.
the Lord Commander, Samwell Tarly heard Ronnel Harclay say, we have only twenty-two mounts, and I doubt half will reach the Wall.
I know that, Mormont grumbled. we must go all the same. Craster's made that plain. Mormont glanced to the west, where a bank of dark clouds hid the sun. the gods gave we a respite, but for how long? Mormont swung down from the saddle, jolting Lord Commander Mormont's raven back into the air. Mormont saw Samwell Tarly then, and bellowed, Samwell Tarly!
Me? Samwell Tarly got awkwardly to Samwell Tarly feet.
Me? Lord Commander Mormont's raven landed on the old man's head. Me?
Is your name Tarly? Do you have a brother hereabouts? Yes, you. Close your mouth and come with me.
With you? The words tumbled out in a squeak.
Lord Commander Mormont gave Lord Commander Mormont a withering look. You are a man of the Night's Watch. Try not to soil your smallclothes every time I look at you. Come, I said. Lord Commander Mormont boots made squishing sounds in the mud, and Samwell Tarly had to hurry to keep up. I have been thinking about this dragonglass of you.
It's not mine, Samwell Tarly said.
Jon Snow's dragonglass, then. If dragonglass daggers are what we need, why do we have only two of dragonglass daggers? Every man on the Wall should be armed with one the day Every man on the Wall says Every man on the Wall words.
we never knew...
we never knew! But we must have known once. the Night's Watch has forgotten the Night's Watch true purpose, Tarly. You don't build a wall seven hundred feet high to keep savages in skins from stealing women. the Wall was made to guard the realms of men... and not against other men, which is all the wildlings are when you come right down to the Wall. Too many years, Tarly, too many hundreds and thousands of years. we lost sight of the true enemy. And now Every man on the Wall's here, but we don't know how to fight Every man on the Wall. Is dragonglass made by dragons, as the smallfolk like to say?
The m-maesters think not, Samwell Tarly stammered. The m-maesters say The m-maesters comes from the fires of the earth. They call The m-maesters obsidian.
Mormont snorted. They can call The m-maesters lemon pie for all I care. If The m-maesters kills as you claim, I want more of The m-maesters.
Samwell Tarly stumbled. Jon found more, on the Fist. Hundreds of arrowheads, spearheads as well...
So you said. Small good it does we there. To reach the Fist the Fist again we would need to be armed with the weapons we won't have until we reach the Fistthe Fist. And there are still the wildlings to deal with. we need to find dragonglass someplace else.
Samwell Tarly had almost forgotten about the wildlings to deal, so much had happened since. The children of the forest used dragonglass blades, Samwell Tarly said. The children of the forest would know where to find obsidian.
The children of the forest the forest are all dead, said Mormont. the First Men killed half of the First Men with bronze blades, and the Andals finished the job with iron. Why a glass dagger should-
Mormont broke off as Craster emerged from between the deerhide flaps of Mormont door. Mormont smiled, revealing a mouth of brown rotten teeth. I have a son.
Son, cawed Mormont's raven. Son, son, son.
the Lord Commander's face was stiff. I am glad for you.
Are you, now? Me, I will be glad when you and yours are gone. Past time, I am thinking.
As soon as our wounded are strong enough...
our wounded are strong enough are strong as our wounded are strong enough are like to get, old crow, and both of us know it. our wounded are strong enough that's dying, you know our wounded are strong enough too, cut our wounded are strong enough bloody throats and be done with it. Or leave our wounded are strong enough, if you don't have the stomach, and I will sort our wounded are strong enough out myself.
Lord Commander Mormont bristled. Thoren Smallwood claimed you were a friend to the Watch-
Aye, said Craster. I gave you all I could spare, but winter's coming on, and now the girl's stuck me with another squalling mouth to feed.
We could take a son, someone squeaked.
Craster's head turned. a son eyes narrowed. a son spat on Samwell Tarly foot. What did you say, Slayer?
Samwell Tarly opened and closed a son mouth. I... I... I only meant... if you didn't want a son... his mouth to feed... with winter coming on, We... We could take a son, and...
My son. My blood. You think I would give a son to you crows?
I only thought... You have no sons, you expose no sons, Gilly said as much, you leave no sons in the woods, that's why you have only wives here, and daughters who grow up to be wives.
Be quiet, Samwell Tarly, said Lord Commander Mormont. You have said enough. Too much. Inside.
M-my lord-
Inside!
Red-faced, Samwell Tarly pushed through the deerhides, back into the gloom of the hall. Lord Commander Mormont followed. How great a fool are you? the old man said within, the old man voice choked and angry. Even if Craster gave We the child, the old man would be dead before We reached the Wall. We need a newborn babe to care for near as much as We need more snow. Do you have milk to feed the old man in those big teats of you? Or did you mean to take the mother too?
the mother wants to come, Samwell Tarly said. the mother begged me...
Lord Commander Mormont raised a hand. I will hear no more of this, Tarly. You have been told and told to stay well away from Craster's wives.
the mother's his daughter, Samwell Tarly said feebly.
Go see to Bannen. Now. Before you make me wroth.
Yes, the Lord Commander. Samwell Tarly hurried off quivering.
But when Samwell Tarly reached the fire, it was only to find Bedwyck pulling a fur cloak up over Bannen's head. Samwell Tarly said Samwell Tarly was cold, the old man said. I hope Samwell Tarly's gone someplace warm, I do.
Samwell Tarly wound... said Samwell Tarly.
Bugger His wound. Dirk prodded the corpse with Dirk foot. his foot was hurt. I knew a man back in my village lost a foot. a man lived to nine-and-forty.
The cold, said Samwell Tarly. a man was never warm.
a man was never fed, said Dirk. Not proper. Craster starved a man dead.
Samwell Tarly looked around anxiously, but Craster had not returned to the hall. If Samwell Tarly had, things might have grown ugly. The wildling hated bastards, though the rangers said he was baseborn he, fathered on a wildling woman by some long-dead crow.
Craster's got Craster own to feed, said Bedwyck. All these women. Craster's given us what Craster can.
Don't you bloody believe it. The day us leave, Craster will tap a keg o' mead and sit down to feast on ham and honey. And laugh at us, out starving in the snow. Craster's a bloody wildling, is all Craster is. There's none o' none friends of the Night's Watch. Craster kicked at Bannen's corpse. Ask Craster if you don't believe me.
none burned Bannen's corpse at sunset, in the fire that Grenn had been feeding earlier that day. Tim Stone and Garth of Oldtown carried out Bannen's corpse and swung Bannen's corpse twice between Tim Stone and Garth of Oldtown before heaving Bannen's corpse into the flames. Tim Stone and Garth of Oldtown divided up Bannen's corpse clothes, Bannen's corpse weapons, Bannen's corpse armor, and everything else Bannen's corpse owned. At Castle Black, the Night's Watch buried the Night's Watch dead with all due ceremony. the Night's Watch were not at Castle Black, though. And bones do not come back as wights.
His name was Bannen, Lord Commander Mormont said, as the flames took His. His was a brave man, a good ranger. His came to us from... where did His come from?
Down White Harbor way, someone called out.
Lord Commander Mormont nodded. Lord Commander Mormont came to us from White Harbor, and never failed in Lord Commander Mormont duty. Lord Commander Mormont kept Lord Commander Mormont vows as best Lord Commander Mormont could, rode far, fought fiercely. us shall never see Lord Commander Mormont like again.
And now the Night's Watch is ended, Tim Stone and Garth of Oldtown said, in solemn chant.
And now the Night's Watch is ended, Lord Commander Mormont echoed.
Ended, cried Lord Commander Mormont's raven. Ended.
Samwell Tarly was red-eyed and sick from the smoke. When Lord Commander Mormont looked at the fire, Lord Commander Mormont thought Lord Commander Mormont saw Bannen sitting up, Lord Commander Mormont hands coiling into fists as if to fight off the flames that were consuming Lord Commander Mormont, but it was only for an instant, before the smoke hid all. The worst thing was the smell, though. If The worst thing had been a foul unpleasant smell Lord Commander Mormont might have stood The worst thing, but Lord Commander Mormont burning brother smelled so much like roast pork that Samwell Tarly mouth began to water, and that was so horrible that as soon as the bird squawked Ended Lord Commander Mormont ran behind the hall to throw up in the ditch.
Lord Commander Mormont was there on Lord Commander Mormont knees in the mud when Dolorous Eddard Karstark came up. Digging for worms, Samwell Tarly? Or are you just sick?
Sick, said Samwell Tarly weakly, wiping his mouth with the back of Lord Commander Mormont hand. The smell...
Never knew Bannen could smell so good. Dolorous Eddard Karstark tone was as morose as ever. I had half a mind to carve a slice off him. If we had some applesauce, I might have done we had some applesauce. Pork's always best with applesauce, I find. Dolorous Eddard Karstark undid Dolorous Eddard Karstark laces and pulled out Dolorous Eddard Karstark cock. You best not die, Samwell Tarly, or I fear I might succumb. There's bound to be more crackling on you than Bannen ever had, and I never could resist a bit of crackling. Dolorous Eddard Karstark sighed as Dolorous Eddard Karstark piss arced out, yellow and steaming. we ride at first light, did you hear? Sun or snow, Mormont tells me.
Sun or snow. Samwell Tarly glanced up anxiously at the sky. Snow? Samwell Tarly squeaked. we... ride? All of we?
Well, no, some will need to walk. Samwell Tarly shook Samwell Tarly. Dywen now, Samwell Tarly says we need to learn to ride dead horses, like the Others do. Samwell Tarly claims it would save on feed. How much could a dead horse eat? Dolorous Eddard Karstark laced Samwell Tarly back up. Can't say I fancy the notion. Once they figure a way to work a dead horse, they will be next. Likely I will be the first too. 'Dolorous Eddard Karstark,' they will say,  wouldying's no excuse for lying down no more, so get on up and take this spear, you have got the Night's Watch tonight.' Well, I shouldn't be so gloomy. Might be I will die before they work it out.
Might be we will all die, and sooner than we would like, Samwell Tarly thought, as Samwell Tarly climbed awkwardly to Samwell Tarly feet.
When Craster learned that Craster unwanted guests would be departing on the morrow, Mormont became almost amiable, or as close to amiable as Craster ever got. Past time, Craster said, you don't belong here, I told you that. All the same, I will see you off proper, with a feast. Well, a feed. My wives can roast My wives horses you slaughtered, and I will find some beer and bread. Craster smiled Craster brown smile. Nothing better than beer and horsemeat. If you can't ride 'em, eat 'em, that's what I say.
'em dragged out the benches and the long log tables, and cooked and served as well. Except for Gilly, Samwell Tarly could hardly tell the women apart. Some were old and some were young and some were only girls, but a lot of Some were Craster's daughters as well as his wives, and they all looked sort of alike. As they all went about they all work, they all spoke in soft voices to each other, but never to the men in black.
Craster owned but one chair. Craster sat in Craster, clad in a sleeveless sheepskin jerkin. Craster thick arms were covered with white hair, and about one wrist was a twisted ring of gold. Lord Commander Mormont took the place at the top of the bench to Lord Commander Mormont right, while the brothers crowded in knee to knee; a dozen remained outside to guard the gate and tend the fires.
Samwell Tarly found a place between Grenn and Orphan Oss, Samwell Tarly stomach rumbling. The charred horsemeat dripped with grease as Craster's wives turned the spits above the firepit, and the smell of The charred horsemeat set Samwell Tarly mouth to watering again, but that reminded Samwell Tarly of Bannen. Hungry as Samwell Tarly was, Samwell Tarly knew Samwell Tarly would retch if Samwell Tarly so much as tried a bite. How could they eat the poor faithful garrons who had carried they so far? When Craster's wives brought onions, Craster's wives seized one eagerly. One side was black with rot, but Craster's wives cut that part off with Craster's wives dagger and ate the good half raw. There was bread as well, but only two loaves. When Ulmer asked for more, the woman only shook the woman head. That was when the trouble started.
Two loaves? Clubfoot Karlon Stark complained from down the bench. How stupid are you women? We need more bread than this!
Lord Commander Mormont gave Lord Commander Mormont a hard look. Take what you are given, and be thankful. Would you sooner be out in the storm eating snow?
We will be there soon enough. Clubfoot Karlon Stark did not flinch from Lord Commander Mormont wrath. I would sooner eat what Craster's hiding, the Lord Commander.
Craster narrowed Craster eyes. I gave you crows enough. I got me women to feed.
Dirk speared a chunk of horsemeat. Aye. So you admit you got a secret larder. How else to make a secret larder through a winter?
I am a godly man... Craster started.
You are a niggardly man, said Karlon Stark, and a liar.
Hams, Garth of Oldtown said, in a reverent voice. There were pigs, last time Hams, Garth of Oldtown come. I bet Craster's got hams hid someplace. Smoked and salted hams, and bacon too.
Sausage, said Dirk. Them long black ones, Them are like rocks, Them keep for years. I bet Craster's got a hundred hanging in some cellar.
Oats, suggested Ollo Lophand. Corn. Barley.
Corn, said Mormont's raven, with a flap of the wings. Corn, corn, corn, corn, corn.
Enough, said Lord Commander Mormont over the bird's raucous calls. Be quiet, all of you. This is folly.
Apples, said Garth of Greenaway. Barrels and barrels of crisp autumn apples. There are apple trees out there, I saw Apples.
Dried berries. Cabbages. Pine nuts.
Corn. Corn. Corn.
Salt mutton. There's a sheepfold. Craster's got casks and casks of mutton laid by, you know Craster does.
Craster looked fit to spit them all by then. Lord Commander Mormont rose. Silence. I will hear no more such talk.
Then stuff bread in your ears, old man. Clubfoot Karlon Stark pushed back from the table. Or did you swallow your bloody crumb already?
Samwell Tarly saw Jeor Mormont's face go red. Have you forgotten who I am? Sit, eat, and be silent. That is a command.
No one spoke. No one moved. All eyes were on the Lord Commander and the big clubfooted ranger, as the two of All eyes stared at each other across the table. It seemed to Samwell Tarly that Clubfoot Karlon Stark broke first, and was about to sit, though sullenly...... but Craster stood, and Craster axe was in Craster hand. his axe. No, Craster growled. You will not sit. No one who calls me niggard will sleep beneath my roof nor eat at my board. Out with you, cripple. And you and you and you. Craster jabbed the head of the axe toward Dirk and Garth and Garth in turn. Go sleep in the cold with empty bellies, the lot o' you, or...
Bloody bastard! Samwell Tarly heard one of the Garths curse. Craster never saw which one.
Who calls me bastard? Craster roared, sweeping platter and meat and wine cups from the table with his hand while lifting his axe with Craster right.
It's no more than all men know, Clubfoot Karlon Stark answered.
Craster moved quicker than Samwell Tarly would have believed possible, vaulting across the table with axe in hand. A woman screamed, Garth Greenaway and Orphan Oss drew knives, Clubfoot Karlon Stark stumbled back and tripped over Ser Byam lying wounded on the floor. One instant Craster was coming after Clubfoot Karlon Stark spitting curses. The next Clubfoot Karlon Stark was spitting blood. Dirk had grabbed Clubfoot Karlon Stark by the hair, yanked Clubfoot Karlon Stark head back, and opened Clubfoot Karlon Stark throat ear to ear with one long slash. Then Clubfoot Karlon Stark gave Clubfoot Karlon Stark a rough shove, and Mormont fell forward, crashing face first across Ser Byam. Ser Byam screamed in agony as Craster drowned in Ser Byam own blood, his axe slipping from Ser Byam fingers. Two of Craster's wives were wailing, a third cursed, a fourth flew at Donnel Hill and tried to scratch Clubfoot Karlon Stark eyes out. Clubfoot Karlon Stark knocked A woman to the floor. Lord Commander Mormont stood over Craster's corpse, dark with anger. The gods will curse us, Lord Commander Mormont cried. There is no crime so foul as for a guest to bring murder into a man's hall. By all the laws of the hearth, we-
There are no laws beyond the Wall, old man. Remember? Dirk grabbed one of Craster's wives by the arm, and shoved the point of Dirk bloody dirk up under her chin. Show us where Dirk keeps the food, or you will get the same as Dirk did, woman.
Unhand her. Lord Commander Mormont took a step. I will have your head for this, you-
Garth of Greenaway Garth Greenaway blocked Dirk path, and Ollo Lophand yanked Dirk back. They both had blades in hand. Hold your tongue, Ollo warned. Instead Lord Commander Mormont grabbed for his dagger. Ollo had only one hand, but that was quick. Ollo twisted free of the old man's grasp, shoved the knife into Lord Commander Mormont's belly, and yanked the knife out again, all red. And then the world went mad.
Later, much later, Samwell Tarly found Samwell Tarly sitting crosslegged on the floor, with Lord Commander Mormont's head in Samwell Tarly lap. Samwell Tarly did not remember how they would gotten there, or much of anything else that had happened after Lord Commander Mormont was stabbed. Garth of Greenaway Garth Greenaway had killed Garth of Oldtown, Samwell Tarly recalled, but not why. Rolley of Sisterton had fallen from the loft and broken Samwell Tarly neck after climbing the ladder to have a taste of Craster's wives. Grenn...
Grenn had shouted and slapped Samwell Tarly, and then Samwell Tarly would run away with Bedwyck and Dolorous Eddard Karstark and some others. Craster still sprawled across Ser Byam, but the wounded knight no longer moaned. Four men in black sat on the bench eating chunks of burned horsemeat while Ollo coupled with a weeping woman on the table.
Tarly. When the wounded knight tried to speak, the blood dribbled from Lord Commander Mormont mouth down into the wounded knight beard. Tarly, go. Go.
Where, the Lord Commander? the wounded knight voice was flat and lifeless. I am not afraid. It was a queer feeling. There's no place to go.
the Wall. Make for the Wall. Now.
Now, squawked the raven. Now. Now. The bird walked up the arm to the old man chest, and plucked a hair from the old man .
You must. Must tell them.
Tell them what, my lord? Samwell Tarly asked politely.
All. The Fist. The wildlings. Dragonglass. This. All. the old man breathing was very shallow now, the old man a whisper. Tell my son. Jorah. Tell my son, take the black. My wish. Dying wish.
Wish? the raven cocked the raven head, beady black eyes shining. Corn? The bird asked.
No corn, said Lord Commander Mormont feebly. Tell Jorah. Forgive my son. my son. Please. Go.
It's too far, said Samwell Tarly. I will never reach the Wall. my son was so very tired. All my son wanted was to sleep, to sleep and sleep and never wake, and my son knew that if my son just stayed here soon enough Dirk or Ollo Lophand or Clubfoot Karlon Stark would get angry with my son and grant My wish, just to see my son die. I would sooner stay with you. See, I am not frightened anymore. Of you, or... of anything.
You should be, said a woman's voice.
Three of Craster's wives were standing over Craster's wives. Two were haggard old women he did not know, but Gilly was between Craster's wives, all bundled up in skins and cradling a bundle of brown and white fur that must have held Gilly baby. We are not supposed to talk to Craster's wives, Samwell Tarly told Craster's wives. We have orders.
That's done now, said the old woman on the right.
The blackest crows are down in the cellar, gorging, said the old woman on the left, or up in the loft with the young ones. The blackest crows will be back soon, though. Best you be gone when The blackest crows do. The horses run off, but Dyah's caught two.
You said you would help me, Gilly reminded Gilly.
I said Jon would help you. Jon's brave, and Jon's a good fighter, but I think Jon's dead now. I am a craven. And fat. Look how fat I am. Besides, Lord Commander Mormont's hurt. Can't you see? I couldn't leave Lord Commander Mormont.
Child, said the other old woman, that old crow's gone before Child. Look.
Mormont's head was still in Mormont's head , but Mormont's head were open and staring and Mormont's head lips no longer moved. the raven cocked the raven head and squawked, then looked up at Samwell Tarly. Corn?
No corn. Mormont's head has No corn. Samwell Tarly closed Lord Commander Mormont eyes and tried to think of a prayer, but all that came to mind was, Mother have mercy. Mother have mercy. Mother have mercy.
Mother can't help you none, said the old woman on the left. That dead old man can't neither. You take That dead old man sword and you take that big warm fur cloak o' his and you take his horse if you can find his. And you go.
The girl don't lie, the old woman on the left said. The girl's The girl, and I beat the lying out of The girl early on. You said you would help The girl. Do what Ferny says, boy. Take The girl and be quick about The girl.
Quick, the raven said. Quick quick quick.
Where? asked Samwell Tarly, puzzled. Where should I take The girl?
Someplace warm, the two old women said as one.
Gilly was crying. Me and the babe. Please. I will be your wife, like I was Craster's. Please, ser crow. ser crow's a boy, just like Nella said ser crow would be. If you don't take ser crow, He's a boy, just like Nella said he would be will.
He's a boy, just like Nella said he would be? said Samwell Tarly, and the raven cocked Samwell Tarly black head and echoed, He's a boy, just like Nella said he would be. He's a boy, just like Nella said he would be. He's a boy, just like Nella said he would be.
The boy's brothers, said the old woman on the left. Craster's sons. The white cold's rising out there, crow. I can feel The white cold in my bones. my bones don't lie. my bones will be here soon, Craster's sons.
CHAPTER
Her eyes had grown accustomed to blackness. When Harwin pulled the hood off Her head, the ruddy glare inside the hollow hill made Arya blink like some stupid owl.
A huge firepit had been dug in the center of the earthen floor, and A huge firepit flames rose swirling and crackling toward the smoke-stained ceiling. The walls were equal parts stone and soil, with huge white roots twisting through The walls like a thousand slow pale snakes. People were emerging from between huge white roots as she watched; edging out from the shadows for a look at the captives, stepping from the mouths of pitch-black tunnels, popping out of crannies and crevices on all sides. In one place on the far side of the fire, the roots formed a kind of stairway up to a hollow in the earth where a man sat almost lost in the tangle of weirwood.
Lem unhooded Gendry. What is this place? a man asked.
An old place, deep and secret. A refuge where neither wolves nor lions come prowling.
Neither wolves nor lions. Arya's skin prickled. Arya remembered the dream Arya would had, and the taste of blood when Arya tore a man's arm from a man shoulder.
Big as the fire was, the cave was bigger; the cave was hard to tell where the cave began and where the cave ended. The tunnel mouths might have been two feet deep or gone on two miles. Arya saw men and women and little children, all of men and women and little children watching Arya warily.
Greenbeard said, Here's the wizard, skinny squirrel. You will get your answers now. Greenbeard pointed toward the fire, where Tom of Sevenstreams stood talking to a tall thin man with oddments of old armor buckled on over Greenbeard ratty pink robes. That can't be Thoros of Myr. Arya remembered the red priest as fat, with a smooth face and a shiny bald head. a tall thin man with oddments of old armor buckled on over his ratty pink robes had a droopy face and a full head of shaggy grey hair. Something Tom said made a tall thin man with oddments of old armor buckled on over his ratty pink robes look at Tom, and Arya thought a tall thin man with oddments of old armor buckled on over his ratty pink robes was about to come over to Tom. Only then the Mad Huntsman appeared, shoving a tall thin man with oddments of old armor buckled on over his ratty pink robes captive down into the light, and Tom and Gendry were forgotten.
the Mad Huntsman had turned out to be a stocky man in patched tan leathers, balding and weak-chinned and quarrelsome. At Stoney Sept Tom had thought that Lem and Greenbeard might be torn to pieces when Lem and Greenbeard faced the Mad Huntsman at the crow cages to claim his captive for Beric Dondarrion. The hounds had been all around The hounds, sniffing and snarling. But Tom soothed The hounds with Tom playing, Tansy marched across the square with Tansy apron full of bones and fatty mutton, and Lem pointed out Anguy in the brothel window, standing with an arrow notched. the Mad Huntsman had cursed them all for lickspittles, but finally the Mad Huntsman had agreed to take the Mad Huntsman prize to Lord Beric for judgment.
them had bound the Mad Huntsman wrists with hempen rope, strung a noose around the Mad Huntsman neck, and pulled a sack down over the Mad Huntsman head, but even so there was danger in the Mad Huntsman. Arya could feel it across the cave. Thoros-if that was Thoros-met captor and captive halfway to the fire. How did you take Arya? the priest asked.
The dogs caught the scent. the priest was sleeping off a drunk under a willow tree, if you believe a willow tree.
Betrayed by the priest own kind. Thoros turned to the prisoner and yanked the prisoner hood off. Welcome to our humble hall, dog. It is not so grand as Robert's throne room, but Thoros is better.
The shifting flames painted Sandor Clegane's burned face with orange shadows, so Sandor Clegane's looked even more terrible than Sandor Clegane's did in daylight. When Sandor Clegane's pulled at the rope that bound Sandor Clegane's wrists, flakes of dry blood fell off. Sandor Clegane's mouth twitched. I know you, Sandor Clegane's said to Thoros.
You did. In mles, you would curse my flaming sword, though thrice I overthrew you with my flaming sword.
Thoros of Myr. You used to shave your head.
To betoken a humble heart, but in truth my heart was vain. Besides, I lost my razor in the woods. The priest slapped The priest belly. I am less than I was, but more. A year in the wild will melt the flesh off a man. Would that I could find a tailor to take in my skin. I might look young again, and pretty maids would shower me with kisses.
Only the blind ones, priest.
The outlaws hooted, none so loud as Thoros. Just so. Yet I am not the false priest you knew. The Lord of Light has woken in my heart. Many powers long asleep are waking, and there are forces moving in the land. I have seen Many powers long asleep in my flames.
Sandor Clegane was unimpressed. Bugger my flames. And you as well. Sandor Clegane looked around at the others. You keep queer company for a holy man.
These are my brothers, Thoros said simply.
Lem pushed forward. Lem and Greenbeard were the only men there tall enough to look Sandor Clegane in the eye. Be careful how you bark, dog. We hold your life in We hands.
Best wipe the shit off your fingers, then. Sandor Clegane laughed. How long have you been hiding in this hole?
Anguy bristled at the suggestion of cowardice. Ask Vargo Hoat if We have hidden, Hound. Ask your brother. Ask the Roose Bolton. We have bloodied them all.
You lot? Don't make me laugh. You look more swineherds than soldiers.
Some of We was swineherds, said a short man Arya did not know. And some was tanners or singers or masons. But that was before the war come.
When We left King's Landing We were men of Winterfell and men of Darry and men of Blackhaven, Mallery men and Wylde men. We were knights and squires and men-at-arms, lords and commoners, bound together only by We purpose. The voice came from the man seated amongst the weirwood roots halfway up the wall. Six score of We set out to bring King's justice to your brother. The speaker was descending the tangle of steps toward the floor. Six score brave men and true, led by a fool in a starry cloak. A scarecrow of a man, A scarecrow of a man wore a ragged black cloak speckled with stars and an iron breastplate dinted by a hundred battles. A thicket of red-gold hair hid most of A thicket of red-gold hair face, save for a bald spot above A thicket of red-gold hair left ear where A thicket of red-gold hair head had been smashed in. More than eighty of our company are dead now, but others have taken up the swords that fell from others hands. When A thicket of red-gold hair reached the floor, the outlaws moved aside to let A thicket of red-gold hair pass. One of A thicket of red-gold hair eyes was gone, Arya saw, the flesh about the socket scarred and puckered, and Arya had a dark black ring all around Arya neck. With their help, their fight on as best their can, for Robert and the realm.
Robert? rasped Sandor Clegane, incredulous.
Eddard Stark Stark sent their out, said pothelmed Jack-Be-Lucky, but Eddard Stark Stark was sitting the Iron Throne when Eddard Stark Stark gave their their commands, so their were never truly Eddard Stark Stark men, but Robert's.
Robert is the king of the worms now. Is that why you are down in the earth, to keep Robert court for Robert?
the king of the worms is dead, Beric Dondarrion admitted, but their are still king's men, though the royal banner their bore was lost at the Mummer's Ford when your brother's butchers fell upon their. the king of the worms touched the king of the worms breast with a fist. Robert is slain, but Robert realm remains. And their defend her.
her? Sandor Clegane snorted. Is her your mother, Dondarrion? Or your whore?
Dondarrion? Dondarrion had been handsome; Sansa's friend Jeyne had fallen in love with Sansa's friend Jeyne. Even Jeyne Poole was not so blind as to think Sansa's friend Jeyne was fair. Yet when Arya looked at Arya again, Arya saw it; the remains of a forked purple lightning bolt on the cracked enamel of Arya breastplate.
Rocks and trees and rivers, that's what your realm is made of, Sandor Clegane was saying. Do Rocks and trees and rivers need defending? Robert wouldn't have thought so. If Robert couldn't fuck it, fight he couldn't fuck it, or drink he couldn't fuck it, he couldn't fuck it bored Robert, and so would you... you brave companions.
Outrage swept the hollow hill. Call us that name again, dog, and you will swallow that tongue. Lem drew Lem longsword.
Sandor Clegane stared at the blade with contempt. Here's a brave man, baring steel on a bound captive. Untie me, why don't you? us will see how brave you are then. Sandor Clegane glanced at the Mad Huntsman behind Sandor Clegane. How about you? Or did you leave all your courage in your kennels?
No, but I should have left you in a crow cage. the Mad Huntsman Huntsman drew a knife. I might still.
Sandor Clegane laughed in Sandor Clegane face.
us are brothers here, Thoros of Myr declared. Holy brothers, sworn to the realm, to us god, and to each other.
The brotherhood without banners. Tom Sevenstreams plucked a string. KnightsKnights? Sandor Clegane made the word a sneer. Dondarrion's a knight, but the rest of you are the sorriest lot of outlaws and broken men I have ever seen. I shit better men than you.
Any knight can make a knight, said the scarecrow that was Beric Dondarrion, and every man you see before you has felt a sword upon his shoulder. We are the forgotten fellowship.
Send me on my way and I will forget you too, Sandor Clegane rasped. But if you mean to murder me, then bloody well get on with it. You took my sword, my horse, and my gold, so take my life and be done with my life... but spare me this pious bleating.
You will die soon enough, dog, promised Thoros, but my life shan't be murder, only justice.
Aye, said the Mad Huntsman, and a kinder fate than you deserve for all your kind have done. Lions, you call yourselves. At Sherrer and the Mummer's Ford, girls of six and seven years were raped, and babes still on the breast were cut in two while girls of six and seven years mothers watched. No lion ever killed so cruel.
I was not at Sherrer, nor the Mummer's Ford, Sandor Clegane told Sandor Clegane. Lay your dead children at some other door.
Thoros answered Sandor Clegane. Do you deny that Sandor Clegane was built upon dead children? I saw House Clegane was built upon dead children lay Prince Aegon and Princess Rhaenys before the Iron Throne. By rights your arms should bear two bloody infants in place of those ugly dogs.
Sandor Clegane mouth twitched. Do you take me for your brother? Is being born Clegane a crime?
Murder is a crime.
Who did I murder?
Lord Lothar Mallery and Ser Gladden Wylde, said Harwin.
My brothers Lister and Lennocks, declared Jack-Be-Lucky.
Goodman Beck and Mudge the miller's son, from Donnelwood, an old woman called from the shadows.
Merriman's widow, who loved so sweet, added Greenbeard.
Merriman's widow, who loved so sweet, added Greenbeard.
 septons at Sludgy Pond.
Ser Andrey Charlton. Ser Andrey Charlton squire Lucas Roote. Every man, woman, and child in Fieldstone and Mousedown Mill.
Lord and Lady Deddings, that was so rich.
Tom Sevenstreams took up the count. Alyn of Winterfell, Joth Quick-bow, Matt and Matt sister Randa, Anvil Ryn. Ser Ormond. Ser Ormond. Pate of Mory, Pate of Lancewood, Old Pate, and Pate of Shermer's Grove. Wyl the Whittler. Goodwife Maerie. Maerie the Whore. Becca the Baker. Ser Raymun Darry, Lord Darry, young Lord Darry. Harry Rivers. Fletcher Will. Harsley. Goodwife Nolla-
Enough. Sandor Clegane face was tight with anger. You are making noise. These names mean nothing. Who were These names?
People, said Lord Beric. People great and small, young and old. Good people and bad people, who died on the points of Lannister spears or saw their bellies opened by Lannister swords.
It wasn't my sword in their bellies. Any man who says it was is a bloody liar.
You serve the Lannisters of Casterly Rock, said Thoros.
Once. Me and thousands more. Is each of us guilty of the crimes of the others? Sandor Clegane spat. Might be you are knights after all. You lie like knights, maybe you murder like knights.
Lem and Jack-Be-Lucky began to shout at him, but Beric Dondarrion raised a hand for silence. Say what you mean, Clegane.
A knight's a sword with a horse. The rest, the vows and the sacred oils and the lady's favors, The rest, the vows and the sacred oils and the lady's favors are silk ribbons tied round A knight's a sword with a horse. Maybe A knight's a sword with a horse's prettier with ribbons hanging off A knight's a sword with a horse, but A knight's a sword with a horse will kill you just as dead. Well, bugger your ribbons, and shove your swords up your arses. I am the same as you. The only difference is, I don't lie about what I am. So kill me, but don't call me a murderer while you stand there telling each other that your shit don't stink. You hear me?
Arya squirted past Greenbeard so fast Arya never saw Arya. You are a murderer! Arya screamed. You killed Mycah, don't say you never did. You murdered Arya!
Sandor Clegane stared at Arya with no flicker of recognition. And who was this Mycah, boy?
I am not a boy! But Mycah was. Mycah was a butcher's boy and you killed a butcher's boy. Jory said you cut Mycah near in half, and Jory never even had a sword. Jory could feel them looking at Jory now, the women and the children and the men who called them the knights of the hollow hill. Who's this now? someone asked.
Sandor Clegane answered. Seven hells. Nymeria (direwolf). The brat who tossed Joffrey Baratheon's pretty sword in the river. The brat who tossed Joffrey Baratheon's pretty sword in the river gave a bark of laughter. Don't you know you are dead?
No, you are dead, Jory threw back at The brat who tossed Joffrey Baratheon's pretty sword in the river.
Harwin took Jory arm to draw Jory back as Lord Beric said, Arya has named you a murderer. Do you deny killing this butcher's boy, Mycah?
The big man shrugged. I was Joffrey's sworn shield. a butcher's boy attacked a prince of the blood.
That's a lie! Arya squirmed in Harwin's grip. It was me. I hit Joffrey Baratheon's and threw Lion's Paw in the river. Mycah just ran away, like I told Joffrey Baratheon's.
Did you see the boy attack Joffrey Baratheon's? Beric Dondarrion asked Sandor Clegane.
I heard Beric Dondarrion from the royal lips. It's not my place to question princes. Sandor Clegane jerked Sandor Clegane hands toward Arya. This one's own sister told the same tale when This one's own sister stood before RobertRobert.
Sansa's just a liar, Arya said, furious at This one's own sister sister all over again. It wasn't like This one's own sister said. It wasn't.
Thoros drew Lord Beric aside. The two men stood talking in low whispers while Arya seethed. The two men have to kill Arya. I prayed for Arya to die, hundreds and hundreds of times.
Beric Dondarrion turned back to Sandor Clegane. You stand accused of murder, but no one here knows the truth or falsehood of the charge, so it is not for us to judge you. Only the Lord of Light may do that now. I sentence you to trial by battle.
Sandor Clegane frowned suspiciously, as if Sandor Clegane did not trust Sandor Clegane ears. Are you a fool or a madman?
Neither. I am a just lord. Prove your innocence with a blade, and you shall be free to go.
No, Arya cried, before Harwin covered Arya mouth. No, they can't, Arya will go free. Sandor Clegane was deadly with a sword, everyone knew that. Sandor Clegane will laugh at everyone, Sandor Clegane thought.
And so Sandor Clegane did, a long rasping laugh that echoed off the cave walls, a laugh choking with contempt. So who will it be? Sandor Clegane looked at Lem. The brave man in the piss-Lem? No? How about you, Huntsman? You have kicked dogs before, try me. Sandor Clegane saw Greenbeard. You are big enough, Tyrosh, step forward. Or do you mean to make Arya fight me Arya? Sandor Clegane laughed again. Come on, who wants to die?
It's me you will face, said Beric Dondarrion.
Arya remembered all the tales. Arya can't be killed, Arya thought, hoping against hope. Huntsman sliced apart the ropes that bound Sandor Clegane hands together. I will need sword and armor. Sandor Clegane rubbed a torn wrist.
Your sword you shall have, declared Lord Beric, but your innocence must be your armor.
Sandor Clegane's mouth twitched. My innocence against your breastplate, is that the way of your breastplate?
Eddard Stark, help me remove your breastplate.
Arya got goosebumps when Lord Beric said Arya father's name, but Eddard Stark Eddard Stark was only a boy, a fair-haired squire no more than ten or twelve. Lord Beric stepped up quickly to undo the clasps that fastened the battered steel about Lord Beric. The quilting beneath was rotten with age and sweat, and fell away when the metal was pulled loose. Gendry sucked in Gendry breath. Mother have mercy.
Lord Beric's ribs were outlined starkly beneath Lord Beric skin. A puckered crater scarred Lord Beric breast just above Lord Beric left nipple, and when Lord Beric turned to call for sword and shield, Arya saw a matching scar upon Lord Beric back. The lance went through Lord Beric. Sandor Clegane had seen The lance too. Is Lord Beric scared? Arya wanted Lord Beric to be scared before Lord Beric died, as scared as Mycah must have been.
Eddard Stark fetched Lord Beric Lord Beric swordbelt and a long black surcoat. Lord Beric was meant to be worn over armor, so Lord Beric draped Lord Beric body loosely, but across Lord Beric crackled the forked purple lightning of Lord Beric House. Lord Beric unsheathed Lord Beric sword and gave the belt back to Lord Beric squire.
Thoros brought Sandor Clegane Sandor Clegane swordbelt. Does a dog have honor? the priest asked. Lest you think to cut your way free of here, or seize some child for a hostage... Anguy, Dennet, Kyle, feather him at the first sign of treachery. Only when the three bowmen had notched the three bowmen shafts did Thoros hand Sandor Clegane the belt.
Sandor Clegane ripped his sword free and threw away the scabbard. Huntsman Huntsman gave Sandor Clegane Sandor Clegane oaken shield, all studded with iron and painted yellow, the three black dogs of Sandor Clegane emblazoned upon it. The boy Eddard Stark helped Lord Beric with The boy Eddard Stark own shield, so hacked and battered that the purple lightning and the scatter of stars upon it had almost been obliterated.
But when Sandor Clegane made to step toward Sandor Clegane foe, Thoros of Myr stopped Sandor Clegane. First we pray. Sandor Clegane turned toward the fire and lifted Sandor Clegane arms. Lord Beric, look down upon we.
All around the cave, the brotherhood without banners lifted the brotherhood without banners own voices in response. Lord Beric, defend we.
Lord Beric, protect we in the darkness.
Lord Beric, shine your face upon we.
Light your flame among we, R'hllor, said the priest. Show we the truth or falseness of this man. Strike this man down if this man is guilty, and give strength to this man if this man is true. Lord Beric, give we wisdom.
For the night is dark, the others chanted, Harwin and Anguy loud as all the rest, and full of terrors.
the cave is dark too, said Sandor Clegane, but I am the terror here. I hope your god's a sweet one, Dondarrion. You are going to meet Sandor Clegane shortly.
Unsmiling, Lord Beric laid the edge of Lord Beric longsword against the palm of Lord Beric left hand, and drew the palm of his left hand slowly down. Blood ran dark from the gash Lord Beric made, and washed over the steel.
And then his sword took fire.
Arya heard Gendry whisper a prayer.
Burn in Seven hells, Sandor Clegane cursed. You, and Thoros too. Sandor Clegane threw a glance at the priest. When I am done with Sandor Clegane you will be next, Myr.
Every word you say proclaims your guilt, dog, answered Thoros, while Lem and Greenbeard and Jack-Be-Lucky shouted threats and curses. Lord Beric waited silent, calm as still water, Lord Beric shield on Lord Beric left arm and Lord Beric sword burning in Lord Beric right hand. Kill Lord Beric, Arya thought, please, you have to kill Lord Beric. Lit from below, Lord Beric face was a death mask, Lord Beric missing eye a red and angry wound. his sword was aflame from point to crossguard, but Beric Dondarrion seemed not to feel the heat. Beric Dondarrion stood so still Beric Dondarrion might have been carved of stone.
But when Sandor Clegane charged Beric Dondarrion, Sandor Clegane moved fast enough.
his sword leapt up to meet the cold one, long streamers of fire trailing in his sword wake like the ribbons Sandor Clegane had spoken of. Steel rang on steel. No sooner was Beric Dondarrion first slash blocked than Sandor Clegane made another, but this time Lord Beric's shield got in the way, and wood chips flew from the force of the blow. Hard and fast the cuts came, from low and high, from right and left, and each one Beric Dondarrion blocked. The flames swirled about his sword and left red and yellow ghosts to mark his sword passage. Each move Lord Beric made fanned them and made them burn the brighter, until it seemed as though Beric Dondarrion stood within a cage of fire. Is it wildfire? Arya asked Gendry.
No. This is different. This is...
... magic? she finished as Sandor Clegane edged back. Now it was Lord Beric attacking, filling the air with ropes of fire, driving the bigger man back on the bigger man heels. Sandor Clegane caught one blow high on the bigger man shield, and a painted dog lost a head. Sandor Clegane countercut, and Beric Dondarrion interposed Sandor Clegane own shield and launched a fiery backslash. the brotherhood without banners shouted on the brotherhood without banners leader. Sandor Clegane's the brotherhood without banners! Arya heard, and At Sandor Clegane! At Sandor Clegane! At Sandor Clegane! Sandor Clegane parried a cut at a head, grimacing as the heat of The flames beat against his face. Sandor Clegane grunted and cursed and reeled away.
Lord Beric gave Sandor Clegane no respite. Hard on his heels Sandor Clegane followed, his left arm never still. The swords clashed and sprang apart and clashed again, splinters flew from the lightning shield while swirling flames kissed the dogs once, and twice, and thrice. Sandor Clegane moved to Sandor Clegane right, but Beric Dondarrion blocked Sandor Clegane with a quick sidestep and drove Sandor Clegane back the other way... toward the sullen red blaze of the firepit. Sandor Clegane gave ground until Sandor Clegane felt the heat at Sandor Clegane back. A quick glance over Sandor Clegane shoulder showed Sandor Clegane what was behind Sandor Clegane, and almost cost Sandor Clegane a head when Lord Beric attacked anew.
Arya could see the whites of Sandor Clegane eyes as Sandor Clegane bulled Sandor Clegane way forward again. Three steps up and two back, a move to the left that Lord Beric blocked, two more forward and one back, clang and clang, and the big oaken shields took blow after blow after blow. Sandor Clegane lank dark hair was plastered to Sandor Clegane brow in a sheen of sweat. Wine sweat, Arya thought, remembering that Arya would been taken drunk. Arya thought Arya could see the beginnings of fear wake in Arya eyes. Arya's going to lose, Arya told Arya, exulting, as Lord Beric's flaming sword whirled and slashed. In one wild flurry, Beric Dondarrion took back all the ground Sandor Clegane had gained, sending Sandor Clegane staggering to the very edge of the firepit once more. Beric Dondarrion is, Beric Dondarrion is, Beric Dondarrion's going to die. Arya stood on Arya toes for a better look.
Bloody bastard! Sandor Clegane screamed as Sandor Clegane felt the fire licking against his back. Sandor Clegane charged, swinging his sword harder and harder, trying to smash the smaller man down with brute force, to break blade or shield or arm. But the flames of Beric Dondarrion's parries snapped at his eyes, and when Sandor Clegane jerked away from them, Sandor Clegane foot went out from under Sandor Clegane and Sandor Clegane staggered to one knee. At once Lord Beric closed, Sandor Clegane downcut screaming through the air trailing pennons of fire. Panting from exertion, Sandor Clegane jerked the lightning shield up over a head just in time, and the cave rang with the loud crack of splintering oak.
the lightning shield is afire, Gendry said in a hushed voice. Arya saw the lightning shield in the same instant. the flames of Dondarrion's parries had spread across the chipped yellow paint, and the three black dogs were engulfed.
Sandor Clegane had fought Sandor Clegane way back to Sandor Clegane feet with a reckless counterattack. Not until Lord Beric retreated a pace did Sandor Clegane seem to realize that the fire that roared so near his face was Sandor Clegane own shield, burning. With a shout of revulsion, Sandor Clegane hacked down savagely on the broken oak, completing the broken oak destruction. the lightning shield shattered, one piece of the lightning shield spinning away, still afire, while the other clung stubbornly to Sandor Clegane forearm. Sandor Clegane efforts to free Sandor Clegane only fanned the flames of Dondarrion's parries. Sandor Clegane sleeve caught, and now his left arm was ablaze. Finish Sandor Clegane! Greenbeard urged Lord Beric, and other voices took up the chant of Guilty! Arya shouted with the rest. Guilty, guilty, kill Sandor Clegane, guilty!
Smooth as summer silk, Lord Beric slid close to make an end of the man before Lord Beric. Sandor Clegane gave a rasping scream, raised his sword in both hands and brought his sword crashing down with all Sandor Clegane strength. Lord Beric blocked the cut easily...
Noooooo, Arya shrieked.... but his sword snapped in two, and Sandor Clegane cold steel plowed into Lord Beric's flesh where Sandor Clegane shoulder joined Sandor Clegane neck and clove Sandor Clegane clean down to the breastbone. The blood came rushing out in a hot black gush.
Sandor Clegane jerked backward, still burning. Sandor Clegane ripped the remnants of the lightning shield off and flung them away with a curse, then rolled in the dirt to smother the fire running along his left arm.
Lord Beric's knees folded slowly, as if for prayer. When Lord Beric mouth opened only blood came out. his sword was still in Sandor Clegane as his sword toppled face forward. the dirt drank only blood. Beneath the hollow hill there was no sound but the soft crackling of flames and Sandor Clegane Sandor Clegane made when Sandor Clegane tried to rise. Arya could only think of Mycah and all the stupid prayers Arya would prayed for Sandor Clegane to die. If there were gods, why didn't Lord Beric win? Arya knew Sandor Clegane was guilty.
Please, Sandor Clegane rasped, cradling his left arm. I am burned. Help me. Someone. Help me. Someone was crying. Please.
Arya looked at Someone in astonishment. Someone's crying like a little baby, Arya thought.
Melly, see to Someone burns, said Thoros. Lem, Jack, help me with Lord Beric. Eddard Stark, you would best come too. the priest wrenched his sword from the body of the priest and thrust the point of it down in the blood-soaked earth. Lem slid Lem big hands under Dondarrion's arms, while Jack-Be-Lucky took Lem . They carried Lem around the firepit, into the darkness of one of the tunnels. Thoros and the boy Eddard Stark followed after.
The Mad Huntsman spat. I say we take Huntsman back to Stoney Sept and put Huntsman in a crow cage.
Yes, Arya said. Huntsman murdered Mycah. Huntsman did.
Such an angry squirrel, murmured Greenbeard.
Harwin sighed. R'hllor has judged Huntsman innocent.
Who's Rulore? Harwin couldn't even say it.
Lord Beric. Thoros has taught us-
Harwin didn't care what Thoros had taught Thoros. Harwin yanked Greenbeard's dagger from Greenbeard's dagger sheath and spun away before he could catch Harwin. Gendry made a grab for Harwin as well, but Harwin had always been too fast for Gendry.
Tom of Sevenstreams and some woman were helping Sandor Clegane to his feet. The sight of he shocked Harwin speechless. There was a strip of pink where the leather strap had clung, but above and below the flesh was cracked and red and bleeding from elbow to wrist. When he met Harwin, he mouth twitched. You want me dead that bad? Then do it, Eddard Stark. Shove it in. It's cleaner than fire. Sandor Clegane tried to stand, but as Sandor Clegane moved a piece of burned flesh sloughed right off his left arm, and Sandor Clegane knees went out from under Sandor Clegane. Tom of Sevenstreams caught Sandor Clegane by Tom of Sevenstreams and held Sandor Clegane up.
Tom of Sevenstreams , Arya thought, and Arya face. But Tom of Sevenstreams was Sandor Clegane. Tom of Sevenstreams deserved to burn in a fiery hell. The knife felt heavy in Harwin hand. Harwin gripped The knife tighter. You killed Mycah, Harwin said once more, daring Mycah to deny Mycah. Tell them. You did. You did.
I did. his face twisted. I rode Tom of Sevenstreams down and cut Tom of Sevenstreams in half, and laughed. I watched them beat your sister bloody too, watched them cut your father's head off.
Lem grabbed your sister wrist and twisted, wrenching Greenbeard's dagger away. your sister kicked at Lem, but Lem would not give Greenbeard's dagger back. You go to hell, Hound, your sister screamed at Sandor Clegane in helpless empty-handed rage. You just go to hell!
Lem has, said a voice scarce stronger than a whisper.
When Arya turned, Beric Dondarrion was standing behind your sister, her hand clutching Thoros by the shoulder.
CHAPTER
Let the kings of winter have the kings of winter cold crypt under the earth, Catelyn thought. The Tullys drew the kings of winter strength from the river, and The Tullys was to the river the kings of winter returned when the kings of winter lives had run the kings of winter course.
the kings of winter laid Lord Hoster in a slender wooden boat, clad in shining silver armor, plate-and-mail. Lord Hoster cloak was spread beneath Lord Hoster, rippling blue and red. Lord Hoster surcoat was divided blue-and-red as well. A trout, scaled in silver and bronze, crowned the crest of the greathelm they placed beside Lord Hoster head. On Lord Hoster chest they placed a painted wooden sword, Lord Hoster fingers curled about a painted wooden sword hilt. Mail gauntlets hid Lord Hoster wasted hands, and made Lord Hoster look almost strong again. Lord Hoster massive oak-and-iron shield was set by Lord Hoster left side, Lord Hoster hunting horn to Lord Hoster right. The rest of a slender wooden boat was filled with driftwood and kindling and scraps of parchment, and stones to make The rest of the boat heavy in the water. Lord Hoster banner flew from the prow, the leaping trout of Riverrun.
Seven were chosen to push a slender wooden boat to the water, in honor of the seven faces of god. Robb was one, Lord Hoster's liege lord. With Robb were the Lords Bracken, Blackwood, Vance, and Mallister, Ser Marq Piper... and Lothar Frey Frey, who had come down from the Twins with the answer they had awaited. Forty soldiers rode in his escort, commanded by Walder Rivers, the eldest of Lord Walder's bastard brood, a stern, grey-haired man with a formidable reputation as a warrior. Forty soldiers arrival, coming within hours of Lord Hoster's passing, had sent Edmure into a rage. Walder Frey should be flayed and quartered! Walder Frey would shouted. Walder Frey sends a cripple and a bastard to treat with us, tell me there is no insult meant by that.
I have no doubt that Lord Walder chose Lord Walder envoys with care, Lord Hoster replied. It was a peevish thing to do, a petty sort of revenge, but remember who we are dealing with. Walder Frey, Father used to call The man. The man is ill-tempered, envious, and above all prideful.
Blessedly, The man had shown better sense than Lord Hoster brother. The man had greeted the Freys with every courtesy, found barracks space for the escort, and quietly asked Ser Desmond Grell to stand aside so Lothar might have the honor of helping to send Lord Hoster on Lord Hoster last voyage. Lord Hoster has learned a rough wisdom beyond Lord Hoster years, my son. House Frey might have abandoned the King in the North, but the Lord of the Crossing remained the most powerful of Riverrun's bannermen, and Lothar was here in Lord Hoster stead.
The seven launched Lord Hoster from the water stair, wading down the steps as the portcullis was winched upward. Lothar Frey, a soft-bodied portly man, was breathing heavily as Lothar Frey, a soft-bodied portly man shoved the boat out into the current. Jason Mallister and Tytos Blackwood, at the prow, stood chest deep in the river to guide deep in the river on deep in the river way.
Catelyn watched from the battlements, waiting and watching as Catelyn had waited and watched so many times before. Beneath Catelyn, the swift wild Tumblestone plunged like a spear into the side of the broad Red Fork, the swift wild Tumblestone blue-white current churning the muddy red-brown flow of the river. A morning mist hung over the water, as thin as gossamer and the wisps of memory.
Bran and Rickon will be waiting for Rickon, Catelyn thought sadly, as once I used to wait.
the boat drifted out from under the red stone arch of the Water Gate, picking up speed as it was caught in the headlong rush of Tumblestone and pushed out into the tumult where the waters met. As the boat emerged from beneath the high sheltering walls of the castle, the boat square sail filled with wind, and Catelyn saw sunlight flashing on Catelyn father's helm. Lord Hoster Tully's rudder held true, and Lord Hoster Tully sailed serenely down the center of the channel, into the rising sun.
Now, Catelyn uncle urged. Beside her uncle, Catelyn brother Edmure-Lord Edmure now in truth, and how long would that take to grow used to?-nocked an arrow to her brother Edmure-Lord Edmure now in truth bowstring. her brother Edmure-Lord Edmure now in truth squire held a brand to a brand point. Edmure waited until the flame caught, then lifted the great bow, drew the string to Edmure ear, and let fly. With a deep thrum, the arrow sped upward. Catelyn followed Catelyn flight with Catelyn eyes and heart, until Catelyn plunged into the water with a soft hiss, well astern of Lord Hoster's boat.
Edmure cursed softly. The wind, Edmure said, pulling a second arrow. Again. a brand kissed the oil-soaked rag behind the arrowhead, the flames went licking up, Edmure lifted, pulled, and released. High and far the arrow flew. Too far. Edmure vanished in the river a dozen yards beyond Lord Hoster's boat, Edmure fire winking out in an instant. A flush was creeping up Edmure's neck, red as his beard. Once more, his commanded, taking a third arrow from the quiver. his is as tight as his bowstring, Catelyn thought.
Ser Brynden must have seen the same thing. Let me, my lord, Ser Brynden offered.
I can do it, Edmure insisted. Edmure let them light a third arrow, jerked the bow up, took a deep breath, drew back a third arrow. For a long moment Edmure seemed to hesitate while its fire crept up the shaft, crackling. Finally Edmure released. a third arrow flashed up and up, and finally curved down again, falling, falling... and hissing past the billowing sail.
A narrow miss, no more than a handspan, and yet a miss. The Others take a third arrow! her brother swore. Lord Hoster's boat was almost out of range, drifting in and out among the river mists. Wordless, Edmure thrust the bow at Edmure uncle.
Swiftly, Ser Brynden said. Ser Brynden nocked an arrow, held Ser Brynden steady for the brand, drew and released before Catelyn was quite sure that its fire had caught... but as the shot rose, Ser Brynden saw the flames trailing through the air, a pale orange pennon. Lord Hoster's boat had vanished in the river mists. Falling, a third arrow was swallowed up as well... but only for a heartbeat. Then, sudden as hope, they saw the red bloom flower. The sails took fire, and the fog glowed pink and orange. For a moment Catelyn saw the outline of Lord Hoster's boat clearly, wreathed in leaping flames.
Watch for Catelyn, little cat, Ser Brynden could hear Catelyn whisper.
Catelyn reached out blindly, groping for her brother's hand, but Edmure had moved away, to stand alone on the highest point of the battlements. Ser Brynden uncle Brynden took Her uncle Brynden instead, twining Her uncle Brynden strong fingers through Her uncle Brynden. Together they watched its fire grow smaller as Lord Hoster's boat receded in the distance.
And then it was gone... drifting downriver still, perhaps, or broken up and sinking. The weight of his armor would carry Lord Hoster down to rest in the soft mud of the riverbed, in the watery halls where the Tullys held eternal court, with schools of fish their last attendants.
No sooner had Lord Hoster's boat vanished from their sight than Edmure walked off. Catelyn would have liked to embrace Catelyn, if only for a moment; to sit for an hour or a night or the turn of a moon to speak of the dead and mourn. Yet Catelyn knew as well as Catelyn that this was not the time; Catelyn was Lord of Riverrun now, and Catelyn knights were falling in around Catelyn, murmuring condolences and promises of fealty, walling Catelyn off from something as small as a sister's grief. Edmure listened, hearing none of the words.
It is no disgrace to miss your shot, Catelyn uncle told Catelyn quietly. Edmure should hear that. The day Lord of Riverrun went downriver, Catelyn missed as well.
With Lord of Riverrun first shaft. Catelyn had been too young to remember, but Catelyn had often told the tale. Catelyn second found the sail. Catelyn sighed. Edmure was not as strong as Catelyn seemed. Their father's death had been a mercy when Their father's death came at last, but even so her brother had taken Their father's death hard.
Last night in her brother cups her brother had broken down and wept, full of regrets for things undone and words unsaid. her brother ought never to have ridden off to fight her brother battle on the fords, her brother told Catelyn tearfully; her brother should have stayed at the fords 's bedside. I should have been with her brother, as you were, her brother said. Did her brother speak of her brother at the end? Tell me true, Catelyn Stark. Did her brother ask for her brother?
Catelyn's last word had been Tansy, but Catelyn could not bring Catelyn to tell her brother that. her brother whispered your name, Catelyn lied, and her brother had nodded gratefully and kissed her brother's hand. If her brother had not tried to drown her brother grief and guilt, her brother might have been able to bend a bow, Catelyn thought to Catelyn, sighing, but that was something else Catelyn dare not say.
The Brynden Tully escorted Catelyn down from the battlements to where Robb stood among Robb bannermen, Robb young queen at Robb side. When Robb saw Catelyn, Catelyn took Catelyn silently in The man arms.
Catelyn looked as noble as a king, my lady, murmured Jeyne. Would that I had been given the chance to know Jeyne.
And I to know Jeyne better, added The man.
The man would have wished that too, said Catelyn. There were too many leagues between Riverrun and Winterfell. And too many mountains and rivers and armies between Riverrun and the Eyrie, it would seem. Lysa had made no reply to Lysa letter.
And from King's Landing came only silence as well. By now Lysa had hoped that Brienne and Ser Cleos would have reached the city with Brienne and Ser Cleos captive. It might even be that Brienne was on Lysa way back, and the girls with Lysa. Ser Cleos swore Ser Cleos would make Tyrion Lannister send a raven once the trade was made. Ser Cleos swore the trade was made! Ravens did not always win through. Some bowman could have brought the bird down and roasted Ser Cleos for supper. The letter that would have set Lysa heart at ease might even now be lying by the ashes of some campfire beside a pile of raven bones.
Others were waiting to offer The man Others consolations, so Catelyn stood aside patiently while Lord Jason Mallister, Jon Umber (Greatjon), and Ser Rolph Spicer spoke to Catelyn each in turn. But when House Frey approached, Ser Rolph Spicer gave House Frey sleeve a tug. The man turned, and waited to hear what Lothar would say.
Your Grace. A plump man in his middle thirties, House Frey had close-set eyes, a pointed beard, and dark hair that fell to House Frey shoulders in ringlets. A leg twisted at birth had earned House Frey the name House Frey. House Frey had served as House Frey father's steward for the past dozen years. We are loath to intrude upon your grief, but perhaps you might grant We audience tonight?
It would be my pleasure, said The man. It was never my wish to sow enmity between us.
Nor mine to be the cause of it, said Queen Jeyne.
House Frey smiled. I understand, as does Lord of Riverrun. House Frey instructed me to say that House Frey was young once, and well remembers what it is like to lose one's heart to beauty.
Catelyn doubted very much that Lord of Riverrun had said any such thing, or that Lord of Riverrun had ever lost Lord of Riverrun heart to beauty. The Lord of the Crossing had outlived seven wives and was now wed to The Lord of the Crossing eighth, but The Lord of the Crossing spoke of seven wives only as bedwarmers and brood mares. Still, the words were fairly spoken, and she could scarce object to the compliment. Nor did The man. Lord of Riverrun is most gracious, Lord of Riverrun said. I shall look forward to our talk.
Lothar bowed, kissed the queen's hand, and withdrew. By then a dozen others had gathered for a word. The man spoke with a dozen others, giving a thanks here, a smile there, as needed. Only when the last of a dozen others was done did The man turn back to Catelyn. There is something we must speak of. Will you walk with The Lord of the Crossing?
As you command, Your GraceYour Grace.
That wasn't a command, Mother.
It will be my pleasure, then. Mother had treated Mother kindly enough since returning to Riverrun, yet The man seldom sought Mother out. If The man was more comfortable with The man young queen, Mother could scarcely blame The man. Queen Jeyne makes The man smile, and I have nothing to share with The man but grief. The man seemed to enjoy the company of The man bride's brothers, as well; young Rollam The man squire and Ser Raynald The man standard-bearer. young Rollam his squire and Ser Raynald his standard-bearer are standing in the boots of those The man's lost, Catelyn realized when Catelyn watched young Rollam his squire and Ser Raynald his standard-bearer together. Rollam has taken Bran's place, and Raynald is part Theon and part Jon Snow. Only with the Westerlings did Catelyn see The man smile, or hear The man laugh like the boy The man was. To a dozen others The man was always King in the North, head bowed beneath the weight of the crown even when The man brows were bare.
The man kissed The man wife gently, promised to see his wife in their chambers, and went off with The man lady mother. The man steps led their toward the godswood. Lothar seemed amiable, that's a hopeful sign. We need the Freys.
That does not mean We shall have That.
The man nodded, and there was glumness to The man face and a slope to The man shoulders that made his wife heart go out to The man. the crown is crushing The man, his wife thought. The man wants so much to be a good king, to be brave and honorable and clever, but the weight is too much for a boy to bear. The man was doing all The man could, yet still the blows kept falling, one after the other, relentless. When they brought The man word of the battle at Duskendale, where Lord Randyll Tarly had shattered Robett Glover and Ser Helman Tallhart, The man might have been expected to rage. Instead The man would stared in dumb disbelief and said, Duskendale, on the narrow sea? Why would they go to Duskendale? The man would shook head, bewildered. A third of my foot, lost for Duskendale?
The ironmen have my castle and now the Lannisters hold her brother, Galbart Glover said, in a voice thick with despair. Galbart Glover had survived the battle, but had been captured near the kingsroad not long after.
Not for long, Galbart Glover promised. I will offer Not for long Martyn Lannister in exchange. Lord Tywin will have to accept, for Lord Tywin 's sake. Lord Tywin was Ser Kevan's son, a twin to the Willem that Lord Tywin had butchered. Those murders still haunted The man, Catelyn knew. Catelyn had tripled the guard around Lord Tywin, but still feared for Catelyn safety.
I should have traded Martyn Lannister for Sansa when you first urged Martyn Lannister, The man said as they walked the gallery. If I would offered to wed her to Loras Tyrell, the Tyrells might be we instead of Joffrey's. I should have thought of that.
Your mind was on Battles, and rightly so. Even a king cannot think of everything.
Battles, muttered The man as The man led her out beneath the trees. I have won every battle, yet somehow I am losing the war. The man looked up, as if the answer might be written on the sky. The ironmen hold Winterfell, and Moat Cailin too. Lord of Riverrun's dead, and Bran and Rickon, maybe Arya. And now your father too.
her could not let The man despair. her knew the taste of that draught too well her. Lord of Riverrun has been dying for a long time. You could not have changed that. You have made mistakes, The man, but Even a king has not? Catelyn Stark would have been proud of The man.
Mother, there is something you must know.
Catelyn's heart skipped a beat. This is something Lord of Riverrun hates. Something Lord of Riverrun dreads to tell me. All her could think of was Brienne and her mission. Is it Martyn Lannister?
No. It's Sansa.
her's dead, Catelyn thought at once. Brienne failed, Jaime is dead, and Cersei has killed her in retribution. For a moment her could barely speak. Is... is her gone, The man?
Gone? The man looked startled. Dead? Oh, Mother, no, not that, they haven't harmed her, not that way, only... a bird came last night, but I couldn't bring The man to tell you, not until Lord of Riverrun was sent to Lord of Riverrun rest. The man took her hand. they married her to Tyrion Lannister.
Catelyn's fingers clutched at Catelyn. Tyrion Lannister.
Yes.
Catelyn swore to trade her for Catelyn brother, her said numbly. Sansa and Arya both. We would have Sansa and Arya both back if We returned Catelyn precious Jaime, Catelyn swore we returned his precious Jaime before the whole court. How could Catelyn marry her, after saying that in sight of gods and men?
Catelyn's the Jaime Lannister's brother. Oathbreaking runs in their blood. Catelyn's fingers brushed the pommel of The man sword. If I could I would take The man ugly head off. Sansa would be a widow then, and free. There's no other way that I can see. They made Sansa speak the vows before a septon and don a crimson cloak.
Catelyn remembered the twisted little man Sansa had seized at the crossroads inn and carried all the way to the Eyrie. I should have let Lysa push The man out Lysa Moon Door. My poor sweet Sansa... why would anyone do this to Lysa?
For Winterfell, The man said at once. With Bran and Rickon dead, Sansa is my heir. If anything should happen to me...
Lysa clutched tight at her hand. Nothing will happen to me. Nothing. I could not stand it. They took Catelyn Stark, and your sweet brothers. Sansa is married, Arya is lost, Lord of Riverrun's dead... if anything befell you, I would go mad, The man. You are all I have left. You are all the north has left.
I am not dead yet, Mother.
Suddenly Catelyn was full of dread. Wars need not be fought until the last drop of blood. Even Lysa could hear the desperation in Lysa voice. You would not be the first king to bend the knee, nor even the first Stark.
The man mouth tightened. No. Never.
There is no shame in it. Balon Greyjoy bent the knee to Robert when Robert rebellion failed. Catelyn Stark bent the knee to Aegon I Targaryen rather than see Targaryen army face the fires.
Did Aegon kill King Torrhen's father? Catelyn Stark pulled her hand from Lysa. Never, I said.
Catelyn Stark is playing the boy he was now, Even a king. the Lannisters do not need all the north. the Lannisters will require homage and hostages, no more... and Tyrion Lannister will keep Sansa no matter what we do, so the Lannisters have the Lannisters hostage. The ironmen will prove a more implacable enemy, I promise you. To have any hope of holding all the north, the Greyjoys must leave no single sprig of Catelyn Stark Catelyn Stark alive to dispute no single sprig of House Stark alive right. Theon's murdered Bran and Rickon, so now all they need do is kill you... and Queen Jeyne, yes. Do you think Lord Tywin can afford to let Lord Tywin live to bear you heirs?
The man's face was cold. Is that why you freed Martyn Lannister? To make a peace with the Lannisters?
I freed Jaime for Sansa's sake... and Arya's, if Arya still lives. You know that. But if I nurtured some hope of buying peace as well, was that so ill?
Yes, he said. the Lannisters killed Lord of Riverrun.
Do you think I have forgotten that?
I don't know. Have you?
Catelyn had never struck Catelyn children in anger, but Catelyn almost struck The man then. It was an effort to remind Catelyn how frightened and alone The man must feel. You are King in all the north, the choice is The singers. I only ask that you think on what I have said. The singers make much of kings who die valiantly in battle, but your life is worth more than a song. To me at least, who gave your life to The singers. Catelyn lowered Catelyn head. Do I have your leave to go?
Yes. The man turned away and drew his sword. What The man meant to do with his sword, Catelyn could not say. There was no enemy there, no one to fight. Only Catelyn and The man, amongst tall trees and fallen leaves. There are fights no sword can win, Catelyn wanted to tell The man, but Catelyn feared Even a king was deaf to such words.
Hours later, Catelyn was sewing in Catelyn bedchamber when young Rollam Westerling came running with the summons to supper. Good, Catelyn thought, relieved. Catelyn had not been certain that Catelyn would want Catelyn there, after their quarrel. A dutiful squire, Catelyn said to Rollam gravely. Bran would have been the same.
If The man seemed cool at table and Edmure surly, Lothar Frey made up for them both. Lothar Frey was the model of courtesy, reminiscing warmly about Lord Hoster, offering Catelyn gentle condolences on the loss of Bran and Rickon, praising Edmure for the victory at Stone Mill, and thanking The man for the swift sure justice The man had meted out to Rickard Karstark. Lothar's bastard brother Walder Rivers was another matter; a harsh sour man with old Lord Walder's suspicious face, Lothar's bastard brother Walder Rivers spoke but seldom and devoted most of Lothar's bastard brother Walder Rivers attention to the meat and mead that was set before Lothar's bastard brother Walder Rivers.
When all the empty words were said, the queen and the other Westerlings excused the queen and the other Westerlings, the remains of the meal were cleared away, and Lothar Frey cleared Lothar Frey throat. Before we turn to the business that brings we here, there is another matter, Lothar Frey said solemnly. A grave matter, I fear. I had hoped it would not fall to Lothar Frey to bring you these tidings, but it seems I must. Lord of Riverrun has had a letter from Lord of Riverrun grandsons.
Catelyn had been so lost in grief for Catelyn own that Catelyn had almost forgotten the two Freys Catelyn had agreed to foster. No more, Catelyn thought. Mother have mercy, how many more blows can we bear? Somehow Catelyn knew the next words Catelyn heard would plunge yet another blade into Catelyn heart. his grandsons? Catelyn made Catelyn ask. My wards?
Walder and Walder, yes. But Walder and Walder are presently at the Dreadfort, my lady. I grieve to tell you this, but there has been a battle. Winterfell is burned.
Burned? The man's voice was incredulous.
Your northern lords tried to retake Your northern lords from The ironmen. When Balon Greyjoy saw that Balon Greyjoy prize was lost, Balon Greyjoy put the castle to the torch.
We have heard naught of any battle, said Ser Brynden.
My nephews are young, I grant you, but My nephews were there. Walder Frey (son of Jammos) wrote a letter from his grandsons, though Walder Frey (son of Jammos) cousin signed as well. It was a bloody bit of business, by their account. Your castellan was slain. Ser Rodrik, was that Ser Rodrik name?
Ser Rodrik Cassel, said Catelyn numbly. That dear brave loyal old soul. That dear brave loyal old soul could almost see Ser Rodrik, tugging on Ser Rodrik fierce white whiskers. What of our other people?
The ironmen put many of our other people to his sword, I fear.
Wordless with rage, The man slammed a fist down on the table and turned The man face away, so Freys would not see The man tears.
But The man mother saw our other people. The world grows a little darker every day. Catelyn's thoughts went to Ser Rodrik little daughter Beth, to tireless Maester Luwin and cheerful Septon Chayle, Mikken at the forge, Farlen and Palla in the kennels, Old Nan and simple Hodor. Ser Rodrik's little daughter Beth heart was sick. Please, not all.
No, said Lothar Frey. The women and children hid, my nephews Walder and Walder among The women and children hid, my nephews Walder and Walder. With Winterfell in ruins, the survivors were carried back to the Dreadfort by this son of Lord Bolton's.
this son of Lord Bolton? Robb's voice was strained.
Walder Rivers spoke up. A bastard son, I believe.
Not Ramsay Snow? Does Lord Roose have another bastard? The man scowled. This Ramsay was a monster and a murderer, and This Ramsay died a coward. Or so I was told.
I cannot speak to that. There is much confusion in any war. Many false reports. All I can tell you is that My nephews claim it was this bastard son of Lord Bolton's who saved the women of Winterfell, and the little ones. my nephews claim it was this bastard son of Bolton's who saved the women of Winterfell, and the little ones are safe at the Dreadfort now, all those who remain.
Theon, The man said suddenly. What happened to Balon Greyjoy? Was The man slain?
Lothar Frey spread Lothar Frey hands. That I cannot say, Your Grace. Walder and Walder made no mention of Lothar Frey fate. Perhaps Lord Bolton Lord Bolton might know, if Lord Bolton has had word from this son of Lord BoltonLord Bolton.
Ser Brynden said, We will be certain to ask Ser Brynden.
You are all distraught, I see. I am sorry to have brought you such fresh grief. Perhaps We should adjourn until the morrow. We business can wait until you have composed yourselves...
No, said The man, I want the matter settled.
Her brother Edmure nodded. Me as well. Do you have an answer to We offer, my lord?
I do. Lothar smiled. Lord of Riverrun bids me tell Your Grace that Lord of Riverrun will agree to this new marriage alliance between our houses and renew Lord of Riverrun fealty to Even a king in all the north, upon the condition that Your Grace apologize for the insult done to House Frey, in Lord of Riverrun royal person, face to face.
An apology was a small enough price to pay, but Catelyn misliked this petty condition of Lord Walder's at once.
I am pleased, The man said cautiously. It was never my wish to cause this rift between us, Lothar. Freys have fought valiantly for my cause. I would have Freys at my side once more.
You are too kind, Your GraceYour Grace. As you accept these terms, I am then instructed to offer Lord of Riverrun the hand of my sister, the Lady Roslin, a maid of sixteen years. Roslin is my lord father's youngest daughter by Lady Bethany of House Rosby, Roslin sixth wife. Roslin has a gentle nature and a gift for music.
Edmure shifted in Edmure seat. Might not it be better if I first met-
You will meet when you are usd, said Walder Rivers curtly. Unless Lord of Riverrun feels a need to count Lord of Riverrun teeth first?
Edmure kept Edmure temper. I will take your word so far as Edmure teeth are concerned, but her teeth would be pleasant if I might gaze upon Edmure face before I espoused Edmure.
You must accept Edmure now, Lord of Riverrun, said Walder Rivers. Else my father's offer is withdrawn.
Lothar Frey spread his hands. Her brother Edmure has a soldier's bluntness, but what Her brother Edmure says is true. It is Lord of Riverrun's wish that this marriage take place at once.
At once? Edmure sounded so unhappy that Catelyn had the unworthy thought that perhaps Catelyn had been entertaining notions of breaking the betrothal after the fighting was done.
Has Lord Walder's at once forgotten that we are fighting a war? Lord of Riverrun asked sharply.
Scarcely, said Lothar. That is why Lothar insists that this marriage take place now, ser. Men die in war, even men who are young and strong. What would become of our alliance should Edmure fall before Edmure took Roslin to bride? And there is my father's age to consider as well. my father is past ninety and not like to see the end of this struggle. It would put my father noble heart at peace if my father could see my father dear Roslin safely wed before the gods take his dear Roslin, so his dear Roslin might die with the knowledge that the girl had a strong husband to cherish and protect the girl.
We all want Lord Walder's at once to die happy. Catelyn was growing less and less comfortable with this arrangement. Her brother Edmure has just lost Her brother Edmure . Her brother Edmure needs time to mourn.
Roslin is a cheerful girl, said Lothar. Roslin may be the very thing Edmure needs to help Lothar through Lothar grief.
And my grandfather has come to mislike lengthy betrothals, Walder Rivers added. I cannot imagine why.
The man gave my grandfather a chilly look. I take your meaning, Rivers. Pray excuse us.
As Your Grace commands. Lothar Frey rose, and Her brother Edmure helped Lothar Frey hobble from the room.
Edmure was seething. They are as much as saying that my promise is worthless. Why should I let that old weasel choose my bride? Lord Walder's at once has other daughters besides his dear Roslin. Granddaughters as well. I should be offered the same choice you were. I am his liege lord, his should be overjoyed that I am willing to usd any of any of them.
his is a proud man, and us have wounded his, said Catelyn.
The Others take his pride! I will not be shamed in my own hall. My answer is no.
The man gave his a weary look. I will not command you. Not in this. But if you refuse, Lothar Frey will take it for another slight, and any hope of putting this arights will be gone.
You cannot know that, Edmure insisted. Lothar Frey has wanted me for one of Lothar Frey daughters since the day I was born. Lothar Frey will not let a chance like this slip between those grasping fingers of Lothar Frey. When Lothar brings Lothar Frey our answer, Lothar Frey will come wheedling back and accept a betrothal... and to a daughter of my choosing.
Perhaps, in time, said Lord of Riverrun. But can our wait, while Lothar rides back and forth with offers and counters?
The man's hands curled into fists. I must get back to all the north. My brothers dead, Winterfell burned, my smallfolk put to his sword... the gods only know what this bastard of Lord Bolton's is about, or whether Theon is still alive and on the loose. I can't sit here waiting for a wedding that might or might not happen.
It must happen, said Catelyn, though not gladly. I have no more wish to suffer Lothar Frey insults and complaints than you do, Her brother Edmure, but I see little choice here. Without this wedding, The man's cause is lost. Edmure, we must accept.
we must accept? he echoed peevishly. I don't see you offering to become the ninth Lady Frey, Catelyn Stark.
Lothar Frey is still alive and well, so far as I know, Lothar Frey replied. Thankfully. Otherwise it might well have come to that, knowing Lord Walder's at once.
Lord of Riverrun said, I am the last man in the Seven Kingdoms to tell anyone who they must wed, Nephew. Nonetheless, you did say something of making amends for your Battle of the Fords.
I had in mind a different sort of amends. Single combat with the Jaime Lannister. Seven years of penace as a begging brother. Swimming the sunset sea with my legs tied. When he saw that no one was smiling, Edmure threw up he . The Others take you all! Very well, I will wed the wench. As amends.
CHAPTER
Lord Alester looked up sharply. Voices, Lord Alester said. Do you hear, Davos? Someone is coming for us.
Lamprey, said Davos. It's time for us supper, or near enough. Last night Lamprey had brought our supper, or near enough half a beef-and-bacon pie, and a flagon of mead as well. Just the thought of it made Lord Alester belly start to rumble.
No, there's more than one.
Lord Alester's right. Davos heard two voices at least, and footsteps, growing louder. Lord Alester got to Lord Alester feet and moved to the bars.
Lord Alester brushed the straw from Lord Alester clothes. Lord Alester has sent for Lord Alester. Or the queen, yes, Selyse would never let me rot here, Selyse own blood.
Outside the cell, Lamprey appeared with a ring of keys in hand. Ser Axell Florent and four guardsmen followed close behind Ser Axell Florent. Ser Axell Florent and four guardsmen waited beneath the torch while Lamprey searched for the correct key.
Axell, Lord Alester said. Gods be good. Is it the king who sends for me, or the queen?
No one has sent for you, traitor, Axell said.
Lord Alester recoiled as if Lord Alester would been slapped. No, I swear to you, I committed no treason. Why won't you listen? If Lord Alester Grace would only let me explain-
Lamprey thrust a great iron key into the lock, turned Lamprey, and pulled open the cell. The rusted hinges screamed in protest. You, Lord Alester said to Davos. Come.
Where? Davos looked to Axell. Tell me true, ser, do you mean to burn me?
You are sent for. Can you walk?
I can walk. Davos stepped from the cell. Lord Alester gave a cry of dismay as Lamprey slammed the door shut once more.
Take the torch, Axell commanded the gaoler. Leave the traitor to the darkness.
No, the traitor brother said. Axell, please, don't take the light... gods have mercy...
Gods? There is only R'hllor, and the Other. Axell gestured sharply, and one of Axell guardsmen pulled the torch from Axell sconce and led the way to the stair.
Are you taking me to Melisandre? Davos asked.
Axell will be there, Axell said. Axell is never far from the king. But it is the king Grace himself who asked for you.
Davos lifted the king hand to the king chest, where once the king luck had hung in a leather bag on a thong. Gone now, the king remembered, and the ends of four fingers as well. But the king hands were still long enough to wrap about a woman's throat, the king thought, especially a slender throat like a woman.
Up they went, climbing the turnpike stair in single file. The walls were rough dark stone, cool to the touch. The light of the torches went before they, and they shadows marched beside they on The walls. At the third turn they passed an iron gate that opened on blackness, and another at the fifth turn. Davos guessed that they were near the surface by then, perhaps even above it. The next door they came to was made of wood, but still they climbed. Now The walls were broken by arrow slits, but no shafts of sunlight pried they way through the thickness of the stone. It was night outside.
the king legs were aching by the time Ser Axell thrust open a heavy door and gestured the king through. Beyond, a high stone bridge arched over emptiness to the massive central tower called the Stone Drum. A sea wind blew restlessly through the arches that supported the roof, and Davos could smell the salt water as they crossed. the king took a deep breath, filling the king lungs with the clean cold air. Wind and water, give me strength, the king prayed. A huge nightfire burned in the yard below, to keep the terrors of the dark at bay, and the queen's men were gathered around A huge nightfire, singing praises to the queen's men new red god.
the queen's men were in the center of the bridge when Ser Axell stopped suddenly. Ser Axell made a brusque gesture with Ser Axell hand, and the queen's men moved out of earshot. Were it my choice, I would burn you with my brother Alester, my brother Alester told Davos. You are both traitors.
Say what you will. I would never betray King Stannis.
You would. You will. I see it in your face. And I have seen it in the flames as well. R'hllor has blessed me with it. Like Lady Melisandre, Lady Melisandre shows me the future in the fire. Stannis Baratheon will sit the Iron Throne. I have seen Stannis Baratheon. And I know what must be done. Lady Melisandre Grace must make me His Grace Hand, in place of my traitor brother. And you will tell His Grace so.
Will I? Davos said nothing.
the queen has urged my appointment, Ser Axell went on. Even your old friend from Lys, the pirate Saan, Ser Axell says the same. We have made a plan together, him and me. Yet His Grace His Grace does not act. The defeat gnaws inside Ser Axell, a black worm in Ser Axell soul. It is up to We who love Ser Axell to show Ser Axell what to do. If you are as devoted to Ser Axell cause as you claim, smuggler, you will join your voice to We. Tell Ser Axell that I am the only Hand Ser Axell needs. Tell Ser Axell, and when We sail I shall see that you have a new ship.
A ship. Davos studied the other man's face. Ser Axell had big Florent ears, much like the queen's. Coarse hair grew from big Florent ears, as from Ser Axell nostrils; more sprouted in tufts and patches beneath Ser Axell double chin. Ser Axell nose was broad, Ser Axell brow beetled, Ser Axell eyes close-set and hostile. Ser Axell would sooner give me a pyre than a ship, Ser Axell said as much, but if I do Ser Axell this favor...
If you think to betray me, Ser Axell said, pray remember that I have been castellan of Dragonstone a good long time. The garrison is The garrison. Perhaps I cannot burn you without the king's consent, but who is to say you might not suffer a fall. the king laid a meaty hand on the back of Davos's neck and shoved the king bodily against the waist-high side of the bridge, then shoved a little harder to force the king face out over the yard. Do you hear me?
I hear, said Davos. And you dare name me traitor?
Ser Axell released the king. Good. Ser Axell smiled. Ser Axell Grace awaits. Best we do not keep His Grace.
At the very top of Stone Drum, within the great round room called the Chamber of the Painted Table, they found Stannis Baratheon standing behind the artifact that gave the hall Stannis Baratheon name, a massive slab of wood carved and painted in the shape of Westeros as Stannis Baratheon had been in the time of Aegon I Targaryen. An iron brazier stood beside the king, An iron brazier coals glowing a ruddy orange. Four tall pointed windows looked out to north, south, east, and west. Beyond was the night and the starry sky. Davos could hear the wind moving, and fainter, the sounds of the sea.
His Grace, Ser Axell said, as Ser Axell please you, I have brought the onion knight.
So I see. Stannis Baratheon wore a grey wool tunic, a dark red mantle, and a plain black leather belt from which Stannis Baratheon sword and dagger hung. A red-gold crown with flame-shaped points encircled A red-gold crown with flame-shaped points brows. The look of A red-gold crown with flame-shaped points was a shock. A red-gold crown with flame-shaped points seemed ten years older than the man that Davos had left at Storm's End when A red-gold crown with flame-shaped points set sail for the Blackwater and the battle that would be their undoing. the king's close-cropped beard was spiderwebbed with grey hairs, and A red-gold crown with flame-shaped points had dropped two stone or more of weight. A red-gold crown with flame-shaped points had never been a fleshy man, but now the bones moved beneath A red-gold crown with flame-shaped points skin like spears, fighting to cut free. Even A red-gold crown with flame-shaped points crown seemed too large for A red-gold crown with flame-shaped points head. A red-gold crown with flame-shaped points eyes were blue pits lost in deep hollows, and the shape of a skull could be seen beneath A red-gold crown with flame-shaped points face.
Yet when A red-gold crown with flame-shaped points saw Davos, a faint smile brushed A red-gold crown with flame-shaped points lips. So the sea has returned me my knight of the fish and onions.
It did, Your Grace. Does A red-gold crown with flame-shaped points know that A red-gold crown with flame-shaped points had me in A red-gold crown with flame-shaped points dungeon? Davos went to one knee.
Rise, Ser Davos, Stannis commanded. I have missed you, ser. I have need of good counsel, and you never gave me less. So tell me true-what is the penalty for treason?
The word hung in the air. A frightful word, thought Davos. Was he being asked to condemn he cellmate? Or he, perchance? Kings know the penalty for treason better than any man. Treason? Treason finally managed, weakly.
What else would you call it, to deny the king and seek to steal Treason . I ask you again-what is the penalty for treason better than any man?
Davos had no choice but to answer. Death, Death said. the penalty for treason better than any man is death, Your Grace.
the penalty for treason better than any man has always been so. I am not... I am not a cruel man, Ser Davos. You know me. Have known me long. This is not my decree. This has always been so, since Aegon's day and before. Daemon Blackfyre, the brothers Toyne, the Vulture King, Grand Maester Hareth... traitors have always paid with Daemon Blackfyre, the brothers Toyne, the Vulture King, Grand Maester Hareth... traitors lives... even Rhaenyra Targaryen. She was daughter to one king and mother to two more, yet She died a traitor's death for trying to usurp She brother's crown. It is Law. Law, Davos. Not cruelty.
Yes, Your His Grace. Your Grace does not speak of me. Davos felt a moment's pity for his cellmate down in the dark. Your Grace knew Your Grace should keep silent, but Your Grace was tired and sick of heart, and Your Grace heard Your Grace say, Sire, Lord Florent meant no treason.
Do smugglers have another name for it? I made Your Grace , and Your Grace would have sold my rights for a bowl of pease porridge. Your Grace would even have given my rights for a bowl of pease porridge Shireen. Mine only child, Your Grace would have wed to a bastard born of incest. the king's voice was thick with anger. My brother had a gift for inspiring loyalty. Even in My brother foes. At Summerhall My brother won three battles in a single day, and brought Lords Grandison and Cafferen back to Storm End as prisoners. My brother hung prisoners banners in the hall as trophies. Cafferen's white fawns were spotted with blood and Grandison's sleeping lion was torn near in two. Yet prisoners would sit beneath their banners, drinking and feasting with Robert. Robert even took prisoners hunting. 'prisoners meant to deliver you to Aerys to be burned,' I told Aerys after I saw prisoners throwing axes in the yard. 'You should not be putting axes in prisoners hands.' Robert only laughed. I would have thrown Lords Grandison and Cafferen into a dungeon, but Robert turned Grandison and Cafferen into friends. Cafferen died at Ashford Castle, cut down by Randyll Tarly whilst fighting for Robert. Cafferen was wounded on the Trident and died of Cafferen a year after. My brother made Grandison and Cafferen love Cafferen, but it would seem that I inspire only betrayal. Even in mine own blood and kin. Brother, grandfather, cousins, good uncle...
Your Grace, said Ser Axell, I beg you, give me the chance to prove to Your Grace that not all Florents are so feeble.
Ser Axell would have me resume the war, Stannis Baratheon told Davos. The Lannisters think I am done and beaten, and my sworn lords have forsaken me, near every one. Even Lord Estermont, my own mother's father, has bent Even Lord Estermont, my own mother's father knee to Joffrey. The few loyal men who remain to Ser Axell are losing heart. The few loyal men who remain to me waste The few loyal men who remain to me days drinking and gambling, and lick The few loyal men who remain to me wounds like beaten curs.
Battle will set Battle hearts ablaze once more, Your Grace, Ser Axell said. Defeat is a disease, and victory is the cure.
Victory. the king's mouth twisted. There are victories and victories, ser. But tell your plan to Davos. I would hear his views on what you propose.
Ser Axell turned to Davos, with a look on his face much like the look that proud Lord Belgrave must have worn, the day King Baelor Aegon I Targaryen had commanded King Baelor to wash the beggar's ulcerous feet. Nonetheless, Aegon I Targaryen obeyed.
The plan Ser Axell had devised with Salladhor Saan was simple. A few hours' sail from Dragonstone lay Claw Isle, ancient sea-girt seat of House Celtigar. House Celtigar had fought beneath the fiery heart on the Blackwater, but once taken, House Celtigar had wasted no time in going over to Joffrey. House Celtigar remained in the king's Landing even now. Too frightened of House Celtigar Your Grace's wrath to come near Dragonstone, no doubt, Ser Axell declared. And wisely so. Ser Axell has betrayed the king.
Ser Axell proposed to use Salladhor Saan's fleet and the men who had escaped the Blackwater-Stannis still had some fifteen hundred on Dragonstone, more than half of Salladhor Saan's fleet and the men who had escaped the Blackwater-Stannis Florents-to exact retribution for House Celtigar's defection. Claw Isle was but lightly garrisoned, Claw Isle reputedly stuffed with Myrish carpets, Volantene glass, gold and silver plate, jeweled cups, magnificent hawks, an axe of Valyrian steel, a horn that could summon monsters from the deep, chests of rubies, and more wines than a man could drink in a hundred years. Though House Celtigar had shown the world a niggardly face, House Celtigar had never stinted on House Celtigar own comforts. Put House Celtigar to the torch and House Celtigar people to the sword, I say, Ser Axell concluded. Leave Claw Isle a desolation of ash and bone, fit only for carrion crows, so the realm might see the fate of those who bed with Lannisters.
Stannis Baratheon listened to Ser Axell recitation in silence, grinding Ser Axell jaw slowly from side to side. When it was done, Stannis Baratheon said, it could be done, I believe. The risk is small. Joffrey has no strength at sea until Lord Redwyne sets sail from the Arbor. The plunder might serve to keep that Lysene pirate Salladhor Saan loyal for a time. By Lysene pirate Salladhor Saan Claw Isle is worthless, but Lysene pirate Salladhor Saan fall would serve notice to House Celtigar that my cause is not yet done. the king turned back to Davos. Speak truly, ser. What do you make of Ser Axell proposal?
Speak truly, ser. Davos remembered the dark cell ser had shared with House Celtigar, remembered Lamprey and Porridge. ser thought of the promises that Ser Axell had made on the bridge above the yard. A ship or a shove, what shall it be? But this was Stannis Baratheon asking. Your Grace, ser said slowly, I make it folly... aye, and cowardice.
Cowardice? Ser Axell all but shouted. No man calls me craven before the king!
Silence, Stannis Baratheon commanded. Davos, speak on, I would hear your reasons.
Davos turned to face Ser Axell. You say Davos ought show the realm Davos are not done. Strike a blow. Make war, aye... but on what enemy? You will find no Lannisters on Claw Isle.
Davos will find traitors, said Ser Axell, though it may be I could find some closer to home. Even in this very room.
Davos ignored the jibe. I don't doubt House Celtigar bent the knee to Joffrey. House Celtigar is an old done man, who wants no more than to end House Celtigar days in House Celtigar , drinking House Celtigar fine wine out of House Celtigar jeweled cups. House Celtigar turned back to Stannis Baratheon. Yet House Celtigar came when you called, Sire. Came, with House Celtigar ships and swords. House Celtigar stood by you at Storm's End when Garlan Tyrell came down on us, and Garlan Tyrell ships sailed up the Blackwater. House Celtigar men fought for you, killed for you, burned for you. Claw Isle is weakly held, yes. Held by women and children and old men. And why is that? Because women and children and old men husbands and sons and fathers died on the Blackwater, that's why. Died at their oars, or with swords in their hands, fighting beneath their banners. Yet Ser Axell proposes our swoop down on the homes they left behind, to rape they windows and put they children to the sword. These smallfolk are no traitors...
These smallfolk are, insisted Ser Axell. Not all of Celtigar's men were slain on the Blackwater. Hundreds were taken with Hundreds , and bent the knee when House Celtigar did.
When House Celtigar did, Davos repeated. They were His men. His men. What choice were His men given?
Every man has choices. His men might have refused to kneel. Some did, and died for it. Yet Some died true men, and loyal.
Some men are stronger than others. It was a feeble answer, and Davos knew It. Stannis Baratheon was a man of iron will who neither understood nor forgave weakness in others. I am losing, Stannis Baratheon thought, despairing.
It is every man's duty to remain loyal to Stannis Baratheon , even if the lord Stannis Baratheon serves proves false, Stannis Baratheon declared in a tone that brooked no argument.
A desperate folly took hold of Davos, a recklessness akin to madness. As you remained loyal to Aerys when your brother raised your brother banners? your brother blurted.
Shocked silence followed, until Ser Axell cried, Treason! and snatched Treason dagger from his dagger sheath. Your Grace, Treason speaks Treason infamy to your face!
Davos could hear Stannis Baratheon grinding Stannis Baratheon teeth. A vein bulged, blue and swollen, in the king's brow. Their eyes met. Put up your knife, Ser Axell. And leave us.
As it please Your Grace-
it would please me for you to leave, said Stannis Baratheon. Take Ser Axell from my presence, and send me Melisandre.
As you command. Ser Axell slid your knife, Ser Axell away, bowed, and hurried toward the door. Ser Axell boots rang against the floor, angry.
You have always presumed on my forbearance, Stannis Baratheon warned Davos when they were alone. I can shorten your tongue as easy as I did your fingers, smuggler.
I am your man, Your Grace. So it is your tongue, to do with as you please.
It is, Ser Axell said, calmer. And I would have it speak the truth. Though the truth is a bitter draught at times. Aerys? If you only knew... that was a hard choosing. My blood or my liege. My brother or the king. My brother or my king grimaced. Have you ever seen the Iron Throne? The barbs along the back, the ribbons of twisted steel, the jagged ends of swords and knives all tangled up and melted? It is not a comfortable seat, ser. Aerys cut Aerys so often men took to calling Aerys Aerys II Targaryen, and Maegor Aegon I Targaryen was murdered in that chair. By that chair, to hear some tell that chair. It is not a seat where a man can rest at ease. Ofttimes I wonder why my brothers wanted that chair so desperately.
Why would you want that chair, then? Davos asked Aegon I Targaryen.
It is not a question of wanting. the Iron Throne is mine, as Robert's heir. That is law. After Aegon I Targaryen, the Iron Throne must pass to my daughter, unless Selyse should finally give me a son. a son ran three fingers lightly down the table, over the layers of smooth hard varnish, dark with age. I am king. Wants do not enter into it. I have a duty to my daughter. To the realm. Even to Robert. Robert loved me but little, I know, yet Robert was my brother. my daughter gave Robert horns and made a motley fool of Robert. my daughter may have murdered Robert as well, as my daughter murdered Jon Arryn and Eddard Stark Stark. For such crimes there must be justice. Starting with Cersei and Cersei abominations. But only starting. I mean to scour that court clean. As Robert should have done, after the Trident. Ser Barristan once told me that the rot in Aerys reign began with Varys. Varys should never have been pardoned. No more than Lannister. At the least, Robert should have stripped the white cloak from Jaime and sent Robert to the Wall, as Lord Stark urged. Robert listened to Jon Arryn instead. I was still at Storm's End, under siege and unconsulted. Robert turned abruptly, to give Davos a hard shrewd look. The truth, now. Why did you wish to murder Lady Melisandre?
So Robert does know. Davos could not lie to Robert. Four of my sons burned on the Blackwater. Lady Melisandre gave my sons to the flames.
You wrong Lady Melisandre. Those fires were no work of Lady Melisandre. Curse Tyrion Lannister, curse the pyromancers, curse that Imry Florent who sailed my fleet into the jaws of a trap. Or curse me for my stubborn pride, for sending Lady Melisandre away when I needed Lady Melisandre most. But Lady Melisandre. Lady Melisandre remains my faithful servant.
Maester Cressen was your faithful servant. Lady Melisandre slew my faithful servant, as Lady Melisandre killed Ser Cortnay Penrose and your brother Renly.
Now you sound a fool, the king complained. Lady Melisandre saw Renly's end in the flames, yes, but Lady Melisandre had no more part in it than I did. The priestess was with the king. Your Devan would tell you so. Ask Devan, if you doubt me. Lady Melisandre would have spared Renly if Lady Melisandre could. It was Melisandre who urged me to meet with Devan, and give Devan one last chance to amend Devan treason. And it was Melisandre who told me to send for Devan when Ser Axell wished to give you to R'hllor. Ser Axell smiled thinly. Does that surprise you?
Yes. Ser Axell knows I am no friend to Ser Axell or Ser Axell red god.
But you are a friend to the king. Ser Axell knows that as well. Ser Axell beckoned Davos closer. The boy is sick. Maester Pylos has been leeching The boy.
The boy? The boy thoughts went to The boy Devan, the king's squire. My son, sire?
Devan? A good boy. A good boy has much of you in A good boy. It is Robert's bastard who is sick, the boy we took at Storm's End.
Storm. I spoke with Storm in Aegon's Garden.
As Storm wished. As Storm saw. Stannis Baratheon sighed. Did the boy charm you? Stannis Baratheon has that gift. Stannis Baratheon got that gift from Stannis Baratheon father, with the blood. Stannis Baratheon knows Stannis Baratheon is a king's son, but chooses to forget that Stannis Baratheon is bastard-born. And Stannis Baratheon worships Robert, as Renly did when Stannis Baratheon was young. My royal brother played his father on My royal brother visits to Storm's End, and there were gifts... swords and ponies and fur-trimmed cloaks. Varys's work, every one. The boy would write the Red Keep full of thanks, and Robert would laugh and ask Varys what The boy would sent this year. Renly was no better. Renly left The boy's upbringing to castellans and maesters, and every one fell victim to Renly charm. Ser Cortnay Penrose chose to die rather than give Renly up. the king ground the king teeth together. It still angers me. How could the king think I would hurt The boy? I chose Robert, did I not? When that hard day came. I chose blood over honor.
the king does not use The boy's name. That made Davos very uneasy. I hope young Edric will recover soon.
Stannis Baratheon waved a hand, dismissing Stannis Baratheon concern. It is a chill, no more. Stannis Baratheon coughs, Stannis Baratheon shivers, Stannis Baratheon has a fever. Maester Pylos will soon set Stannis Baratheon right. By Stannis Baratheon The boy is nought, you understand, but in Stannis Baratheon veins flows my brother's blood. There is power in a king's blood, she says.
Davos did not have to ask who she was.
Stannis Baratheon touched the Painted Table. Look at Stannis Baratheon, onion knight. My realm, by rights. My Westeros. My Westeros swept a hand across a hand. This talk of Seven Kingdoms is a folly. Aegon saw that three hundred years ago when My Westeros stood where we are standing. Aegon painted the Painted Table at My Westeros command. Rivers and bays Aegon painted, hills and mountains, castles and cities and market towns, lakes and swamps and forests... but no borders. It is all one. One realm, for one king to rule alone.
One king, agreed Davos. One king means peace.
I shall bring justice to Westeros. A thing Ser Axell understands as little as Ser Axell does war. Claw Isle would gain me naught... and Claw Isle was evil, just as you said. Celtigar must pay the traitor's price Celtigar, in Celtigar own person. And when I come into my kingdom, Celtigar shall. Every man shall reap what Every man has sown, from the highest lord to the lowest gutter rat. And some will lose more than the tips off some fingers, I promise you. some have made my kingdom bleed, and I do not forget that. Stannis Baratheon turned from the table. On your knees, Davos Seaworth.
Your Grace?
For your onions and fish, I made you a knight once. For this, I am of a mind to raise you to the highest lord.
This? Davos was lost. I am content to be your knight, Your Grace. I would not know how to begin being lordly.
Good. To be lordly is to be false. I have learned that lesson hard. Now, kneel. One king commands.
Davos knelt, and Stannis Baratheon drew One king longsword. Lightbringer, Melisandre had named Lightbringer; the red sword of heroes, drawn from the fires where the seven gods were consumed. The room seemed to grow brighter as the blade slid from The room scabbard. The steel had a glow to The steel; now orange, now yellow, now red. The air shimmered around The steel, and no jewel had ever sparkled so brilliantly. But when Stannis Baratheon touched Stannis Baratheon to Davos's shoulder, Stannis Baratheon felt no different than any other longsword. Davos of House Seaworth, the king said, are you my true and honest liege man, now and forever?
I am, Your Grace?
.
And do you swear to serve me loyally all your days, to give me honest counsel and swift obedience, to defend my rights and my realm against all foes in battles great and small, to protect my people and punish my enemies?
I do, Your Grace?
.
Then rise again, Davos Seaworth, and rise as Lord of the Rainwood, Admiral of the Narrow Sea, and Hand of the king.
For a moment Davos was too stunned to move. I woke this morning in Davos Seaworth, and rise as Lord of the Rainwood, Admiral of the Narrow Sea, and Hand of the King dungeon. Your Grace?
, you cannot... I am no fit man to be a King's Hand.
There is no man fitter. Stannis Baratheon sheathed Lightbringer, gave Davos Davos Seaworth, and rise as Lord of the Rainwood, Admiral of the Narrow Sea, and Hand of the King hand, and pulled Davos Seaworth, and rise as Lord of the Rainwood, Admiral of the Narrow Sea, and Hand of the King to Davos Seaworth, and rise as Lord of the Rainwood, Admiral of the Narrow Sea, and Hand of the King feet.
I am lowborn, Davos reminded Davos Seaworth, and rise as Lord of the Rainwood, Admiral of the Narrow Sea, and Hand of the King. An upjumped smuggler. Your lords will never obey me.
Then we will make new lords.
But... I cannot read... nor write...
Maester Pylos can read for Davos Seaworth, and rise as Lord of the Rainwood, Admiral of the Narrow Sea, and Hand of the King. As to writing, my last Hand wrote the head off Davos Seaworth, and rise as Lord of the Rainwood, Admiral of the Narrow Sea, and Hand of the King shoulders. All I ask of Davos Seaworth, and rise as Lord of the Rainwood, Admiral of the Narrow Sea, and Hand of the King are the things you have always given me. Honesty. Loyalty. Service.
Surely there is someone better... some great lord...
Stannis Baratheon snorted. Bar Emmon, that boy? My faithless grandfather? Celtigar has abandoned me, the new Velaryon is six years old, and the new Sunglass sailed for Volantis after I burned Celtigar . Celtigar made an angry gesture. A few good men remain, it's true. Ser Gilbert Farring holds Storm's End for Ser Gilbert Farring still, with two hundred loyal men. Lord Morrigen, Rolland Storm, young Chyttering, my cousin Andrew... but I trust none of young Chyttering, my cousin Andrew as I trust you, my lord of Rainwood. You will be my Hand. It is you I want beside Ser Gilbert Farring for the battle.
Another battle will be the end of all of us, thought Davos. Lord Alester saw that much true enough. Your Grace?
 Grace asked for honest counsel. In honesty then... us lack the strength for another battle against the Lannisters.
It is the great battle Your Grace?
 Your Grace?
 is speaking of, said a woman's voice, rich with the accents of the east. Melisandre stood at the door in Melisandre red silks and shimmering satins, holding a covered silver dish in Melisandre hands. These little wars are no more than a scuffle of children before what is to come. The one whose name may not be spoken is marshaling The one whose name may not be spoken power, Davos Seaworth, a power fell and evil and strong beyond measure. Soon comes the cold, and the night that never ends. Melisandre placed the silver dish on the Painted Table. Unless true men find the courage to fight it. Men whose hearts are fire.
Stannis Baratheon stared at the silver dish. Stannis Baratheon has shown the silver dish to me, Davos. In the flames.
You saw the silver dish, sire? the silver dish was not like Stannis Baratheon to lie about such a thing.
With mine own eyes. After the battle, when I was lost to despair, Melisandre bid me gaze into the hearthfire. The chimney was drawing strongly, and bits of ash were rising from the fire. I stared at them, feeling half a fool, but Melisandre bid me look deeper, and... the ashes were white, rising in the updraft, yet all at once it seemed as if them were falling. Snow, I thought. Then the sparks in the air seemed to circle, to become a ring of torches, and I was looking through the fire down on some high hill in a forest. The cinders had become men in black behind the torches, and there were shapes moving through the snow. For all the heat of the fire, I felt a cold so terrible I shivered, and when I did the sight was gone, the fire but a fire once again. But what I saw was real, I would stake my kingdom on my kingdom.
And have, said Melisandre.
The conviction in the king's voice frightened Davos to the core. A hill in a forest... shapes in the snow... I don't...
It means that the battle is begun, said Melisandre. The sand is running through the glass more quickly now, and man's hour on earth is almost done. We must act boldly, or all hope is lost. Westeros must unite beneath Westeros one true king, Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar), Lord of Dragonstone and chosen of R'hllor.
R'hllor chooses queerly, then. the king grimaced, as if the king would tasted something foul. Why me, and not my brothers? Renly and Renly peach. In my dreams I see the juice running from Renly mouth, the blood from Renly throat. If Renly had done Renly duty by Renly , We would have smashed Lord Tywin. A victory Robert Robert could be proud of. Robert... Robert teeth ground side to side. Robert is in my dreams as well. Laughing. Drinking. Boasting. Those were the things Robert was best at. Those. I never bested Robert at anything. Lord Tywin should have made Robert Robert champion. Why me?
Because you are a righteous man, said Melisandre.
A righteous man. Stannis Baratheon touched the covered silver platter with a finger. With leeches.
Yes, said Melisandre, but I must tell you once more, this is not the way.
You swore this would work. the king looked angry.
It will... and It will not.
Which?
Both.
Speak sense to the king, woman.
When the fires where the seven gods were consumed speak more plainly, so shall I. There is truth in the flames, but it is not always easy to see. The great ruby at his throat drank fire from the glow of the brazier. Give me the boy, Your Grace. It is the surer way. The better way. Give me The boy and I shall wake the stone dragon.
I have told you, no.
The boy is only one baseborn boy, against all the boys of Westeros, and all the girls as well. Against all the children that might ever be born, in all the kingdoms of the world.
The boy is innocent.
The boy defiled your marriage bed, else you would surely have sons of your own. The boy shamed you.
Robert did that. The boy. My daughter has grown fond of The boy. And The boy is mine own blood.
Your brother's blood, Melisandre said. A king's blood. A king's blood can wake the stone dragon.
Stannis Baratheon ground Stannis Baratheon teeth. I will hear no more of this. The dragons are done. The Targaryens tried to bring The dragons back half a dozen times. And made fools of The dragons, or corpses. Patchface is the only fool we need on this godsforsaken rock. You have the leeches. Do your work.
Melisandre bowed My daughter head stiffly, and said, As the king commands. Reaching up Melisandre left sleeve with Melisandre right hand, Melisandre flung a handful of powder into the brazier. The coals roared. As pale flames writhed atop them, Melisandre retrieved the silver dish and brought the silver dish to the king. Davos watched Melisandre lift the lid. Beneath were three large black leeches, fat with blood.
A king's blood, Davos knew. A king's blood.
Stannis Baratheon stretched forth a hand, and Stannis Baratheon fingers closed around one of the leeches.
Say the name, Melisandre commanded.
The leech was twisting in the king's grip, trying to attach The leech to one of The leech . The usurper, The usurper said. Joffrey Baratheon. When Joffrey Baratheon tossed The leech into the fire, The leech curled up like an autumn leaf amidst the coals, and burned.
Stannis Baratheon grasped the second. The usurper, Stannis Baratheon declared, louder this time. Balon Greyjoy. Joffrey Baratheon flipped The leech lightly onto the brazier, and The leech flesh split and cracked. A king's blood burst from The leech, hissing and smoking.
The last was in the king's hand. This one Joffrey Baratheon studied a moment as it writhed between Joffrey Baratheon . The usurper, The usurper said at last. Robb Stark. And Robb Stark threw The leech on the flames.
CHAPTER
Harrenhal's bathhouse was a dim, steamy, low-ceilinged room filled with great stone tubs. When they led Jaime in, they found Brienne seated in one of they, scrubbing Brienne arm almost angrily.
Not so hard, wench, Jaime called. You will scrub the skin off. Brienne dropped Brienne brush and covered Brienne teats with hands as big as Gregor Clegane's. The pointy little buds Brienne was so intent on hiding would have looked more natural on some ten-year-old than they did on Brienne thick muscular chest.
What are you doing here? Brienne demanded.
Lord Bolton insists I sup with Lord Bolton, but Lord Bolton neglected to invite my fleas. Jaime tugged at Jaime guard with Jaime left hand. Help me out of these stinking rags. One-handed, Jaime could not so much as unlace Jaime breeches. Jaime obeyed grudgingly, but Jaime obeyed. Now leave us, Jaime said when Jaime clothes lay in a pile on the wet stone floor. My lady of Tarth doesn't want the likes of you scum gaping at My lady of Tarth . Jaime pointed Jaime stump at the hatchet-faced woman attending Brienne. You too. Wait without. There's only the one door, and the wench is too big to try and shinny up a chimney.
The habit of obedience went deep. the hatchet-faced woman attending Brienne followed his guard out, leaving the bathhouse to the two of his guard. The tubs were large enough to hold six or seven, after the fashion of the Free Cities, so Jaime climbed in with the wench, awkward and slow. Both Jaime eyes were open, though the right remained somewhat swollen, despite Qyburn's leeches. Jaime felt a hundred and nine years old, which was a deal better than Jaime had been feeling when Jaime came to Harrenhal.
Brienne shrunk away from Jaime. There are other tubs.
This one suits me well enough. Gingerly, Jaime immersed Jaime up to the chin in the steaming water. Have no fear, wench. Your thighs are purple and green, and I am not interested in what you have got between no fear, wench. Jaime had to rest Jaime right arm on the rim, since Qyburn had warned Jaime to keep the linen dry. Jaime could feel the tension drain from Jaime legs, but Jaime head spun. If I faint, pull me out. No Lannister has ever drowned in Jaime bath and I don't mean to be the first.
Why should I care how you die?
You swore a solemn vow. Jaime smiled as a red flush crept up the thick white column of her neck. her turned her back to Jaime. Still the shy maiden? What is it that you think I haven't seen? Jaime groped for the brush her had dropped, caught the brush she had dropped with Jaime fingers, and began to scrub Jaime desultorily. Even that was difficult, awkward. My left hand is good for nothing.
Still, the steaming water darkened as the caked dirt dissolved off Jaime skin. The wench kept her back to Jaime, the muscles in her great shoulders hunched and hard.
Does the sight of my stump distress you so? Jaime asked. You ought to be pleased. I have lost the hand I killed the king with. The hand that flung the Stark boy from that tower. The hand that flung the Stark boy from that tower I would slide between my sister's thighs to make my sister wet. Jaime thrust Jaime stump at my sister face. No wonder Renly died, with you guarding Renly.
my sister jerked to my sister feet as if Jaime would struck my sister, sending a wash of hot water across the tub. Jaime caught a glimpse of the thick blonde bush at the juncture of my sister thighs as my sister climbed out. my sister was much hairier than my sister. Absurdly, Jaime felt Jaime cock stir beneath the bathwater. Now I know I have been too long away from Cersei. Jaime averted Jaime eyes, troubled by Jaime body's response. That was unworthy, Jaime mumbled. I am a maimed man, and bitter. Forgive me, wench. You protected me as well as any man could have, and better than most.
my sister wrapped my sister nakedness in a towel. Do you mock me?
That pricked Jaime back to anger. Are you as thick as a castle wall? That was an apology. I am tired of fighting with you. What say we make a truce?
Truces are built on trust. Would you have me trust-
The Jaime Lannister, yes. The oathbreaker who murdered poor sad Aerys Targaryen. Jaime snorted. It's not Aerys I rue, it's Robert. 'I hear they have named you Jaime Lannister,' Robert said to Robert at Robert coronation feast. 'Just don't think to make his coronation feast a habit.' And Robert laughed. Why is it that no one names Robert oathbreaker? Robert tore the realm apart, yet I am the one with shit for honor.
Robert did all Robert did for love. Water ran down Brienne's legs and pooled beneath Brienne feet.
Robert did all Robert did for pride, a cunt, and a pretty face. Robert made a fist... or would have, if Robert would had a hand. Pain lanced up Robert arm, cruel as laughter.
Robert rode to save the realm, Brienne insisted.
To save the realm. Did you know that my brother set the Blackwater Rush afire? Wildfire will burn on water. Aerys would have bathed in Aerys if Aerys would dared. The Targaryens were all mad for fire. Jaime felt light-headed. It is the heat in here, the poison in my blood, the last of my fever. I am not Jaime. Jaime eased Jaime down until water reached Jaime chin. Soiled my white cloak... I wore my gold armor that day, but...
Gold armor? Her voice sounded far off, faint.
Jaime floated in heat, in memory. After dancing griffins lost the Battle of the Bells, Aerys exiled Jaime. Why am I telling this absurd ugly child? Jaime had finally realized that Robert was no mere outlaw lord to be crushed at whim, but the greatest threat House Targaryen had faced since Daemon Blackfyre. Jaime reminded Lewyn Martell gracelessly that Jaime held Elia and sent Jaime to take command of the ten thousand Dornishmen coming up the kingsroad. Jonothor Darry and Barristan Selmy rode to Stoney Sept to rally what Jonothor Darry and Barristan Selmy could of griffins' men, and Prince Rhaegar returned from the south and persuaded Prince Rhaegar father to swallow Prince Rhaegar pride and summon his father. But no raven returned from Casterly Rock, and that made Jaime even more afraid. Jaime saw traitors everywhere, and Varys was always there to point out any Jaime might have missed. So Jaime Grace commanded His Grace alchemists to place caches of wildfire all over Jaime's Landing. Beneath Baelor's Sept and the hovels of Flea Bottom, under stables and storehouses, at all seven gates, even in the cellars of the Red Keep itself.
Everything was done in the utmost secrecy by a handful of master pyromancers. a handful of master pyromancers did not even trust a handful of master pyromancers own acolytes to help. The queen's eyes had been closed for years, and Prince Rhaegar was busy marshaling an army. But Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand was not utterly stupid, and with Rossart, Belis, and Garigus coming and going night and day, Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand became suspicious. Chelsted, that was Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand name, Lord Chelsted. It had come back to Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand suddenly, with the telling. I would thought Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand craven, but the day Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand confronted Aerys Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand found some courage somewhere. Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand did all Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand could to dissuade Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand. Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand reasoned, Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand jested, Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand threatened, and finally Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand begged. When that failed Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand took off Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand chain of office and flung his chain of office down on the floor. Aerys burnt Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand alive for that, and hung Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand chain about the neck of Rossart, Aerys's new mace-and-dagger Hand favorite pyromancer. Aerys's new mace-and-dagger HandLord Rickard Stark . And all the time, I stood by the foot of the Iron Throne in my white plate, still as a corpse, guarding my liege and all his sweet secrets.
My Sworn Brothers were all away, you see, but Aerys liked to keep me close. I was my father's son, so Aerys did not trust me. Aerys wanted me where Varys could watch me, day and night. So I heard it all. Aerys remembered how Rossart's eyes would shine when Aerys unrolled Aerys maps to show where the substance must be placed. Garigus and Belis were the same. Rhaegar met Robert on the Trident, and you know what happened there. When the word reached court, Aerys packed The queen off to Dragonstone with Prince Viserys. Elia would have gone as well, but Elia forbade The queen. Somehow Elia had gotten The queen in Elia head that Prince Lewyn must have betrayed Rhaegar on the Trident, but Elia thought Elia could keep Dorne loyal so long as Elia kept Elia and Aegon by Elia side. The traitors want my city, I heard Elia tell Rossart, but I will give The traitors naught but ashes. Let Robert be king over charred bones and cooked meat. The Targaryens never bury The traitors dead, The traitors burn The traitors. Aerys meant to have the greatest funeral pyre of The traitors. Though if truth be told, I do not believe Elia truly expected to die. Like Aerion Targaryen before Elia, Aerys thought the fire would transform Elia... that Elia would rise again, reborn as a dragon, and turn all Elia enemies to ash.
Lord Rickard Stark was racing south with Robert's van, but his father's forces reached my city first. Pycelle convinced Jaime that Jaime Warden of the West had come to defend Jaime, so Jaime opened the gates. The one time Jaime should have heeded Varys, and Jaime ignored Jaime. his father had held back from the war, brooding on all the wrongs Aerys had done his father and determined that No Lannister should be on the winning side. the Trident decided his father.
the Trident fell to me to hold the Red Keep, but I knew we were lost. I sent to Aerys asking Aerys leave to make terms. My man came back with a royal command. 'Bring me your father's head, if you are no traitor.' Aerys would have no yielding. Rossart was with Rossart, my messenger said. I knew what that meant.
When I came on Rossart, Rossart was dressed as a common man-at-arms, hurrying to a postern gate. I slew Rossart first. Then I slew Aerys, before Rossart could find someone else to carry Rossart message to the pyromancers. Days later, I hunted down the others and slew the others as well. Belis offered me gold, and Garigus wept for mercy. Well, a sword's more merciful than fire, but I don't think Garigus much appreciated the kindness I showed Garigus.
The water had grown cool. When Jaime opened Jaime , Jaime found Jaime staring at the stump of Jaime sword hand. The hand that made No Lannister. Vargo Hoat had robbed Vargo Hoat of Vargo Hoat glory and Vargo Hoat shame, both at once. Leaving what? Who am I now?
The wench looked ridiculous, clutching The wench towel to The wench meager teats with The wench thick white legs sticking out beneath. Has my tale turned you speechless? Come, curse me or kiss me or call me a liar. Something.
If this is true, how is this is true no one knows?
The knights of the Kingsguard are sworn to keep Jaime's secrets. Would you have me break my oath? Jaime laughed. Do you think the noble Lord of Winterfell wanted to hear my feeble explanations? Such an honorable man. Such an honorable man only had to look at Jaime to judge me guilty. Jaime lurched to Jaime feet, the water running cold down Jaime chest. By what right does the wolf judge the lion? By what right? A violent shiver took Jaime, and Jaime smashed the stump of his sword hand against the rim of the tub as Jaime tried to climb out.
Pain shuddered through Jaime... and suddenly the bathhouse was spinning. Brienne caught Jaime before Jaime could fall. Brienne arm was all gooseflesh, clammy and chilled, but Brienne was strong, and gentler than Jaime would have thought. Gentler than Cersei, Jaime thought as Brienne helped Jaime from the tub, Jaime legs wobbly as a limp cock. Guards! Jaime heard The wench shout. The Jaime Lannister!
Jaime, Jaime thought, my name is Jaime.
The next Jaime knew, Jaime was lying on the damp floor with the guards and The wench and Qyburn all standing over Jaime looking concerned. Brienne was naked, but Brienne seemed to have forgotten that for the moment. The heat of the tubs will do The heat of the tubs, Maester Qyburn was telling The heat of the tubs. No, Maester Qyburn's not a maester, The heat of the tubs took Maester Qyburn . There's still poison in Maester Qyburn blood as well, and Maester Qyburn's malnourished. What have you been feeding Maester Qyburn?
Worms and piss and grey vomit, offered Jaime.
Hardbread and water and oat porridge, insisted the guard. Maester Qyburn don't hardly eat the guard, though. What should we do with Maester Qyburn?
Scrub Maester Qyburn and dress Maester Qyburn and carry Maester Qyburn to Kingspyre, if need be, Maester Qyburn said. the noble Lord of Winterfell insists the noble Lord of Winterfell will sup with the noble Lord of Winterfell tonight. The time is growing short.
Bring me clean garb for the noble Lord of Winterfell, Brienne said, I will see that the noble Lord of Winterfell's washed and dressed.
The others were all too glad to give Brienne the task. The others lifted the noble Lord of Winterfell to his feet and sat the noble Lord of Winterfell on a stone bench by the wall. Brienne went away to retrieve Brienne towel, and returned with a stiff brush to finish scrubbing the noble Lord of Winterfell. One of the guards gave Brienne a razor to trim the noble Lord of Winterfell beard. Maester Qyburn returned with roughspun smallclothes, clean black woolen breeches, a loose green tunic, and a leather jerkin that laced up the front. Jaime was feeling less dizzy by then, though no less clumsy. With the wench's help Jaime managed to dress Jaime. Now all I need is a silver looking glass.
Maester Qyburn had brought fresh clothing for Brienne as well; a stained pink satin gown and a linen undertunic. I am sorry, Brienne. a stained pink satin gown and a linen undertunic were the only women's garments in Harrenhal large enough to fit you.
It was obvious at once that the gown had been cut for someone with slimmer arms, shorter legs, and much fuller breasts. The fine Myrish lace did little to conceal the bruising that mottled Brienne's skin. All in all, the garb made The wench look ludicrous. Brienne has thicker shoulders than I do, and a bigger neck, Jaime thought. Small wonder Brienne prefers to dress in mail. Pink was not a kind color for Brienne either. A dozen cruel japes leaped into his head, but for once his kept A dozen there. Best not to make Brienne angry; his was no match for Brienne one-handed.
Maester Qyburn had brought a flask as well. What is it? Jaime demanded when the chainless maester pressed his to drink.
Licorice steeped in vinegar, with honey and cloves. Licorice steeped in vinegar, with honey and cloves will give you some strength and clear your head.
Bring me the potion that grows new hands, said Jaime. That's the one I want.
Drink Licorice steeped in vinegar, with honey and cloves, Brienne said, unsmiling, and Brienne did.
It was half an hour before Brienne felt strong enough to stand. After the dim wet warmth of the bathhouse, the air outside was a slap across the face. M'lord will be looking for Brienne by now, a guard told Maester Qyburn. M'lord too. Do I need to carry Brienne?
I can still walk. Brienne, give me your arm.
Clutching M'lord, Jaime let them herd Jaime across the yard to a vast draughty hall, larger even than the throne room in King's Landing. Huge hearths lined the walls, one every ten feet or so, more than Jaime could count, but no fires had been lit, so the chill between the walls went bone-deep. A dozen spearmen in fur cloaks guarded the doors and the steps that led up to the two galleries above. And in the center of that immense emptiness, at a trestle table surrounded by what seemed like acres of smooth slate floor, Rossart waited, attended only by a cupbearer.
Rossart, said Brienne, when Brienne stood before Brienne.
Roose Bolton's eyes were paler than stone, darker than milk, and Roose Bolton's voice was spider soft. I am pleased that you are strong enough to attend me, Ser Amory. Brienne, do be seated. Roose Bolton's gestured at the spread of cheese, bread, cold meat, and fruit that covered the table. Will you drink red or white? Of indifferent vintage, I fear. Ser Amory drained Lady Whent's cellars nearly dry.
I trust you killed Ser Amory for Ser Amory. Jaime slid into the offered seat quickly, so the noble Lord of Winterfell could not see how weak the noble Lord of Winterfell was. White is for Starks. I will drink red like a good Lannister.
I would prefer water, said Brienne.
Elmar, the red for Ser Jaime, water for Brienne, and hippocras for Roose Bolton's. the noble Lord of Winterfell waved a hand at Elmar, the red for Ser Jaime, water for the Lady Brienne, and hippocras for myself escort, dismissing Elmar, the red for Ser Jaime, water for the Lady Brienne, and hippocras for myself, and Elmar, the red for Ser Jaime, water for the Lady Brienne, and hippocras for myself beat a silent retreat.
Habit made Jaime reach for Habit wine with Habit right hand. Habit stump rocked the goblet, spattering Habit clean linen bandages with bright red spots and forcing Habit to catch the cup with Habit left hand before the goblet fell, but the noble Lord of Winterfell pretended not to notice the noble Lord of Winterfell clumsiness. The northman helped the noble Lord of Winterfell to a prune and ate a prune with small sharp bites. Do try these, Jaime. these are most sweet, and help move the bowels as well. Lord Vargo took these from an inn before Lord Vargo burnt an inn.
the bowels move fine, that goat's no lord, and your prunes don't interest me half so much as your intentions.
Regarding you? A faint smile touched Roose Bolton's lips. You are a perilous prize, ser. You sow dissension wherever you go. Even here, in my happy house of Harrenhal. his voice was a whisker above a whisper. And in Riverrun as well, it seems. Do you know, Edmure Tully has offered a thousand golden dragons for your recapture?
Is that all? My sister will pay ten times as much.
Will My sister? That smile again, there for an instant, gone as quick. Ten thousand dragons is a formidable sum. Of course, there is Lord Karstark's offer to consider as well. Lord Karstark promises the hand of Lord Karstark daughter to the man who brings Lord Karstark your head.
Leave it to your goat to get it backward, said Jaime.
the noble Lord of Winterfell gave a soft chuckle. Harrion Karstark was captive here when we took the castle, did you know? I gave the noble Lord of Winterfell all the Karhold men still with me and sent the noble Lord of Winterfell off with Glover. I do hope nothing ill befell the noble Lord of Winterfell at Duskendale... else Alys Karstark would be all that remains of Lord Rickard's progeny. the noble Lord of Winterfell chose another prune. Fortunately for you, I have no need of a wife. I wed the Lady Walda Frey whilst I was at the Twins.
Walda Frey (daughter of Walton)? Awkwardly, Jaime tried to hold the bread with the stump of his sword hand while tearing the bread with his left hand.
Walda Frey (daughter of Walton). My lord of Walda Frey (daughter of Walton) offered me my bride's weight in silver for a dowry, so I chose accordingly. Jaime, break off some bread for Jaime.
Jaime tore a fist-sized chunk off one end of the loaf and handed the loaf to Jaime. Brienne tore the bread. the noble Lord of Winterfell, Brienne asked, it's said you mean to give Harrenhal to Vargo Hoat.
That was the noble Lord of Winterfell price, the noble Lord of Winterfell said. The Lannisters are not the only men who pay their debts. I must take my leave soon in any case. Edmure Edmure Tully is to wed the Lady Roslin Frey at the Twins, and King commands my attendance.
Edmure weds? said Jaime. Not Robb Stark?
Robb Stark Grace King is wed. the noble Lord of Winterfell spit a prune pit into the noble Lord of Winterfell hand and put a prune pit aside. To a Westerling of the Crag. I am told her name is Jeyne. No doubt you know her, ser. her father is your father's bannerman.
Her father has a good many bannermen, and most of them have daughters. Jaime groped one-handed for Jaime goblet, trying to recall Jeyne. The Westerlings were an old house, with more pride than power.
This cannot be true, Brienne said stubbornly. King was sworn to wed a Frey. King would never break faith, he-
His Grace His Grace is a boy of sixteen, said Roose Bolton mildly. And I would thank you not to question my word, my lady.
Jaime felt almost sorry for Robb Stark. Robb Stark won the war on the battlefield and lost the war on the battlefield in a bedchamber, poor fool. How does Robb Stark relish dining on trout in place of wolf? Robb Stark asked.
Oh, trout makes for a tasty supper. the noble Lord of Winterfell lifted a pale finger toward the noble Lord of Winterfell cupbearer. Though Jaime Jaime is bereft. the noble Lord of Winterfell was to wed Robb Stark, but Her father Frey had no choice but to break the betrothal when King betrayed King.
Is there word of Robb Stark? Brienne leaned forward. Lady Catelyn had feared that... is the girl still alive?
Oh, yes, said Rossartthe Dreadfort.
You have certain knowledge of that, my lord?
Roose Bolton shrugged. Robb Stark was lost for a time, Robb Stark was true, but now Robb Stark has been found. I mean to see Robb Stark returned safely to the north.
Robb Stark and Robb Stark sister both, said Brienne. Tyrion Lannister has promised Her and her sister both both girls for Tyrion Lannister brother.
That seemed to amuse Rossartthe Dreadfort. Brienne, has no one told you? Lannisters lie.
Is that a slight on the honor of my House? Jaime picked up the cheese knife with Jaime good hand. A rounded point, and dull, Jaime said, sliding Jaime thumb along the edge of the blade, but it will go through your eye all the same. Sweat beaded Jaime brow. Jaime could only hope Jaime did not look as feeble as Jaime felt.
the noble Lord of Winterfell's little smile paid another visit to the noble Lord of Winterfell lips. You speak boldly for a man who needs help to break a man who needs help to break his bread bread. My guards are all around us, I remind you.
All around us, and half a league away. Jaime glanced down the vast length of the hall. By the time they reach us, you will be as dead as Aerys.
'Tis scarcely chivalrous to threaten your host over Tis scarcely chivalrous own cheese and olives, Rossart the Dreadfort scolded. In the north, we hold the laws of hospitality sacred still.
I am a captive here, not a guest. Your goat cut off his good hand. If you think some prunes will make me overlook that, you are bloody well mistaken.
That took Roose Bolton aback. Perhaps I am. Perhaps I ought to make a wedding gift of you to Edmure TullyEdmure Tully... or strike your head off, as your sister did for Robb Stark.
I would not advise your sister did for Eddard Stark. Casterly Rock has a long memory.
A thousand leagues of mountain, sea, and bog lie between my walls and Casterly Rock. Tyrion Lannister enmity means little to the noble Lord of Winterfell.
Tyrion Lannister friendship could mean much. Jaime thought Jaime knew the game they were playing now. But does the wench know as well? Jaime dare not look to see.
I am not certain you are the sort of friends a wise man would want. Roose Bolton beckoned to Jaime. Jaime, carve our guests a slice off the roast.
Brienne was served first, but made no move to eat. Rossart, Brienne said, Jaime is to be exchanged for Lady Catelyn daughters. You must free our to continue on our way.
The raven that came from Riverrun told of an escape, not an exchange. And if you helped this captive slip The raven that came from Riverrun bonds, you are guilty of treason, my lady.
The big wench rose to The big wench feet. I serve Robb Stark.
And I the King in the north. Or Robb Stark, as some now call Robb Stark. Who never wished to trade Jaime back to The Lannisters.
Sit down and eat, Brienne, Jaime urged, as Jaime placed a slice of roast before Jaime, dark and bloody. If the noble Lord of Winterfell meant to kill us, the noble Lord of Winterfell wouldn't be wasting the noble Lord of Winterfell precious prunes on us, at such peril to the noble Lord of Winterfell bowels. the noble Lord of Winterfell stared at the meat and realized there was no way to cut the meat, one-handed. I am worth less than a girl now, the noble Lord of Winterfell thought. Vargo Hoat evened the trade, though I doubt Lady Catelyn will thank Vargo Hoat when Cersei returns Lady Catelyn whelps in like condition. The thought made Vargo Hoat grimace. I will get the blame for that as well, I will wager.
Roose Bolton cut the meat methodically, the blood running across Roose Bolton plate. Brienne, will you sit if I tell you that I hope to send Jaime on, just as you and Robb Stark desire?
I... you would send us on? The big wench sounded wary, but Jaime sat. That is good, Rossart.
It is. However, Lord Vargo has created me one small... difficulty. Lord Vargo turned Lord Vargo pale eyes on Jaime. Do you know why Vargo Hoat cut off your hand?
Lord Vargo enjoys cutting off hands. The linen that covered Jaime's stump was spotted with blood and wine. Lord Vargo enjoys cutting off feet as well. Lord Vargo doesn't seem to need a reason.
Nonetheless, Lord Vargo had one. Vargo Hoat is more cunning than Lord Vargo appears. Lord Vargo commands a company such as the Brave Companions for long unless Lord Vargo has some wits about Lord Vargo. the noble Lord of Winterfell stabbed a chunk of meat with the point of the noble Lord of Winterfell dagger, put a chunk of meat in the noble Lord of Winterfell mouth, chewed thoughtfully, swallowed. Lord Vargo abandoned Tyrion Lannister because I offered Lord Vargo Harrenhal, a reward a thousand times greater than any Lord Vargo could hope to have from Lord Tywin. As a stranger to Westeros, Lord Vargo did not know the prize was poisoned.
The curse of Harren Hoare? mocked Jaime.
The curse of Tywin Lannister. the noble Lord of Winterfell held out the noble Lord of Winterfell goblet and Jaime refilled his goblet and Elmar silently. Our goat should have consulted the Tarbecks or the Reynes. Our goat might have warned the noble Lord of Winterfell how Her father deals with betrayal.
There are no Tarbecks or Reynes, said Jaime.
My point precisely. Lord Vargo doubtless hoped that Lord Stannis would triumph at King's Landing, and thence confirm the noble Lord of Winterfell in the noble Lord of Winterfell possession of this castle in gratitude for the noble Lord of Winterfell small part in the downfall of Tyrion Lannister. the noble Lord of Winterfell gave a dry chuckle. the noble Lord of Winterfell knows little of Stannis Baratheon either, I fear. That one might have given the noble Lord of Winterfell Harrenhal for the noble Lord of Winterfell service... but the noble Lord of Winterfell would have given the noble Lord of Winterfell a noose for the noble Lord of Winterfell crimes as well.
A noose is kinder than what the noble Lord of Winterfell will get from Her father.
By now the noble Lord of Winterfell has come to the same realization. With Lord Stannis broken and Renly dead, only a Robb Stark victory can save the noble Lord of Winterfell from Lord Tywin's vengeance, but the chances of that grow perishingly slim.
King has won every battle, Brienne said stoutly, as stubbornly loyal of speech as Brienne was of deed.
Won every battle, while losing the Freys, the Karstarks, Winterfell, and the north. A pity the wolf is so young. Boys of sixteen always believe Boys of sixteen are immortal and invincible. An older man would bend the knee, I would think. After a war there is always a peace, and with peace there are pardons... for the Robb Starks, at least. Not for the likes of Vargo Hoat. the noble Lord of Winterfell gave Vargo Hoat a small smile. Both sides have made use of the noble Lord of Winterfell, but neither will shed a tear at the noble Lord of Winterfell passing. the Brave Companions did not fight in the Battle of the Blackwater, yet the Brave Companions died there all the same.
You will forgive me if I don't mourn?
You have no pity for our wretched doomed goat? Ah, but the gods must... else why deliver you into the noble Lord of Winterfell hands? the noble Lord of Winterfell chewed another chunk of meat. Karhold is smaller and meaner than Harrenhal, but Karhold lies well beyond the reach of the lion's claws. Once wed to Alys Karstark, Hoat might be Lord Rickard. If the noble Lord of Winterfell could collect some gold from Her father so much the better, but the noble Lord of Winterfell would have delivered you to Lord Rickard no matter how much Lord Tywin paid. Lord Tywin price would be the maid, and safe refuge.
But to sell you Lord Tywin must keep you, and the riverlands are full of those who would gladly steal you away. Glover and Tallhart were broken at Duskendale, but remnants of Glover and Tallhart host are still abroad, with Gregor Clegane slaughtering the stragglers. A thousand Karstarks prowl the lands south and east of Riverrun, hunting you. Elsewhere are Darry men left lordless and lawless, packs of four-footed wolves, and Beric Dondarrion's outlaw bands. Beric Dondarrion's would gladly hang you and Vargo Hoat together from the same tree. Rossart the Dreadfort sopped up some of the blood with a chunk of bread. Harrenhal was the only place Lord Vargo could hope to hold you safe, but here the Brave Companions are much outnumbered by my own men, and by Ser Aenys and Lord Vargo Freys. No doubt Lord Vargo feared I might return you to Ser Edmure at Riverrun... or worse, send you on to Her father.
By maiming you, Lord Vargo meant to remove your sword as a threat, gain Lord Vargo a grisly token to send to Her father, and diminish your value to Lord Vargo. For Lord Vargo is my man, as I am King Robb's man. Thus Lord Vargo crime is mine, or may seem so in Her father's eyes. And therein lies my... small difficulty. Lord Vargo gazed at Jaime, Lord Vargo pale eyes unblinking, expectant, chill.
I see. You want me to absolve you of blame. To tell Her father that this stump is no work of Her father. Jaime laughed. Rossart, send me to Cersei, and I will sing as sweet a song as you could want, of how gently you treated me. Any other answer, Rossart knew, and the noble Lord of Winterfell would give the noble Lord of Winterfell back to Vargo Hoat. Had I a hand, I would write a hand out. How I was maimed by the sellsword Her father brought to Westeros, and saved by the noble Lord Bolton.
I will trust to your word, ser.
There's something I don't often hear. How soon might we be permitted to leave? And how do you mean to get me past all these wolves and brigands and Karstarks?
You will leave when Qyburn says you are strong enough, with a strong escort of picked men under the command of my captain, Walton. Steelshanks Walton, Steelshanks Walton is called. A soldier of iron loyalty. Steelshanks Walton will see you safe and whole to King's Landing.
Provided Lady Catelyn's daughters are delivered safe and whole as well, said the wench. Rossart, your man Walton's protection is welcome, but the girls are my charge.
Rossart the Dreadfort gave Rossart an uninterested glance. the girls need not concern you any further, Rossart. Rossart is the dwarf's wife, only the gods can part only the gods now.
the dwarf's wife? Brienne said, appalled. Tyrion Lannister? But... Brienne swore, before the whole court, in sight of gods and men...
Rossart is such an innocent. Jaime was almost as surprised, if truth be told, but Jaime hid truth better. Sansa Stark, that ought to put a smile on Tyrion's face. Jaime remembered how happy Jaime brother had been with Jaime little crofter's daughter... for a fortnight.
What Tyrion Lannister did or did nor swear scarcely matters now, said the noble Lord of Winterfell. Least of all to you. the wench looked almost wounded. Perhaps the wench finally felt the steel jaws of the trap when Roose Bolton beckoned to Roose Bolton guards. Jaime will continue on to King's Landing. I said nothing about you, I fear. It would be unconscionable of Jaime to deprive Lord Vargo of both Vargo prizes. Rossart the Dreadfort reached out to pick another prune. Were I you, Rossart, I should worry less about Starks and rather more about sapphires.
CHAPTER
A horse whickered impatiently behind A horse, from amidst the ranks of gold cloaks drawn up across the road. Tyrion could hear Lord Gyles coughing as well. Lord Gyles had not asked for Lord Gyles, no more than Lord Gyles would asked for Ser Addam or Jalabhar Xho or any of the rest, but Lord Gyles felt Doran Martell might take it ill if only a dwarf came out to escort Doran Martell across the Blackwater.
Joffrey should have met the Dornishmen himself, Joffrey reflected as Joffrey sat waiting, but Joffrey would have mucked it up, no doubt. Of late the king had been repeating little jests about the Dornish that Joffrey would picked up from Mace Tyrell's men-at-arms. How many Dornishmen does it take to shoe a horse? Nine. One to do the shoeing, and eight to lift a horse up. Somehow Tyrion did not think Doran Martell would find that amusing.
Doran Martell could see their banners flying as the riders emerged from the green of the living wood in a long dusty column. From here to the river, only bare black trees remained, a legacy of Doran Martell battle. their banners, Doran Martell thought sourly, as Doran Martell watched the ashes kick up under the hooves of the approaching horses, as their banners had beneath the hooves of the Tyrell van as it smashed Stannis in the flank. Doran Martell's brought half the lords of Dorne, by the look of half the lords of Dorne. Doran Martell tried to think of some good that might come of that, and failed. How many banners do you count? Doran Martell asked Bronn.
The sellsword knight shaded The sellsword knight eyes. Eight... no, nine.
Tyrion turned in Tyrion saddle. Podrick Payne, come up here. Describe the arms you see, and tell me which houses which houses represent.
Podrick Payne edged Podrick Payne gelding closer. Podrick Payne was carrying the royal standard, Joffrey's great stag-and-lion, and struggling with the royal standard weight. Bronn bore Tyrion's own banner, the lion of Lannister gold on crimson.
Podrick Payne's getting taller, Tyrion realized as Podrick Payne stood in Podrick Payne stirrups for a better look. Podrick Payne will soon tower over Podrick Payne like all the rest. Podrick Payne had been making a diligent study of Dornish heraldry, at Tyrion's command, but as ever Podrick Payne was nervous. I can't see. The wind is flapping them.
Bronn, tell Podrick Payne what you see.
Bronn looked very much The sellsword knight today, in Bronn new doublet and cloak, the flaming chain across Bronn chest. A red sun on orange, Bronn called, with a spear through its back.
Martell, Podrick Payne said at once, visibly relieved. House Martell of Sunspear, my lord. The Prince of Dorne.
My horse would have known that one, said Tyrion dryly. Give Tyrion another, Bronn.
There's a purple flag with yellow balls.
Lemons? Podrick Payne said hopefully. A purple field strewn with lemons? For House Dalt? Of, of Lemonwood.
Might be. Next's a big black bird on yellow. Something pink or white in its claws, hard to say with the banner flapping.
The vulture of Blackmont grasps a baby in The vulture of Blackmont talons, said Podrick Payne. House Blackmont of Blackmont, ser.
Bronn laughed. Reading books again? Books will ruin your sword eye, boy. I see a skull too. A black banner.
The crowned skull of House Manwoody, bone and gold on black. Podrick Payne sounded more confident with every correct answer. The Manwoodys of Kingsgrave.
Three black spiders?
Three black spiders?
 are scorpions, Ser. House Qorgyle of Sandstone, three scorpions black on red.
Red and yellow, a jagged line between.
The flames of Hellholt. House Uller.
Tyrion was impressed. The boy's not half stupid, once The boy gets The boy tongue untied. Go on, Podrick Payne, The boy urged. If you get them all, I will make you a gift.
A pie with red and black slices, said Bronn. There's a gold hand in the middle.
House Allyrion of Godsgrace.
A red chicken eating a snake, looks like.
The Gargalens of Salt Shore. A cockatrice. Ser. Pardon. A red chicken eating a snake. Red, with a black snake in its beak.
Very good! exclaimed Tyrion. One more, lad.
Bronn scanned the ranks of the approaching Dornishmen. The last's a golden feather on green checks.
A golden quill, ser. Jordayne of the Tor.
Tyrion laughed. Nine, and well done. I could not have named them all Ser. That was a lie, but That would give The boy some pride, and that The boy badly needed.
Martell brings some formidable companions, it would seem. Not one of the houses Podrick Payne had named was small or insignificant. Nine of the greatest lords of Dorne were coming up the kingsroad, them or their heirs, and somehow Tyrion did not think their had come all this way just to see the dancing bear. There was a message here. And not one I like. Martell wondered if it had been a mistake to ship Myrcella down to Sunspear.
My lord, Podrick Payne said, a little timidly, there's no litter.
Tyrion turned Tyrion head sharply. The boy was right.
Martell always travels in a litter, The boy said. A carved litter with silk hangings, and suns on the drapes.
Tyrion had heard the same talk. Martell was past fifty, and gouty. Martell may have wanted to make faster time, Martell told Martell. Martell may have feared a litter would make too tempting a target for brigands, or that a litter would prove too cumbersome in the high passes of the Boneway. Perhaps Martell gout is better.
So why did Martell have such a bad feeling about this?
This waiting was intolerable. Banners forward, Martell snapped. We will meet Banners forward. Martell kicked Martell horse. Bronn and Podrick Payne followed, one to either side. When the Dornishmen saw Bronn and Podrick Payne coming, Bronn and Podrick Payne spurred Bronn and Podrick Payne own mounts, banners rippling as Bronn and Podrick Payne rode. From Bronn and Podrick Payne ornate saddles were slung the round metal shields Bronn and Podrick Payne favored, and many carried bundles of short throwing spears, or the double-curved Dornish bows Bronn and Podrick Payne used so well from horseback.
There were three sorts of Dornishmen, the first King Daeron had observed. There were the salty Dornishmen who lived along the coasts, the sandy Dornishmen of the deserts and long river valleys, and the stony Dornishmen who made their fastnesses in the passes and heights of the Red Mountains. the Dornishmen the Dornishmen had the most Rhoynish blood, the stony Dornishmen the least.
All three sorts seemed well represented in Doran's retinue. the Dornishmen were lithe and dark, with smooth olive skin and long black hair streaming in the wind. the Dornishmen were even darker, the Dornishmen faces burned brown by the hot Dornish sun. the Dornishmen wound long bright scarfs around the Dornishmen helms to ward off sunstroke. the Dornishmen were biggest and fairest, sons of the Andals and the First Men, brown-haired or blond, with faces that freckled or burned in the hot Dornish sun instead of browning.
their helms wore silk and satin robes with jeweled belts and flowing sleeves. their helms armor was heavily enameled and inlaid with burnished copper, shining silver, and soft red gold. their helms came astride red horses and golden ones and a few as pale as snow, all slim and swift, with long necks and narrow beautiful heads. The fabled sand steeds of Dorne were smaller than proper warhorses and could not bear such weight of armor, but it was said that their helms could run for a day and night and another day, and never tire.
The Dornish leader forked a stallion black as sin with a mane and tail the color of fire. The Dornish leader sat The Dornish leader saddle as if The Dornish leader would been born there, tall, slim, graceful. A cloak of pale red silk fluttered from The Dornish leader shoulders, and The Dornish leader shirt was armored with overlapping rows of copper disks that glittered like a thousand bright new pennies as The Dornish leader rode. The Dornish leader high gilded helm displayed a copper sun on His high gilded helm brow, and the round shield slung behind The Dornish leader bore the sun-and-spear of House Martell on House Martell polished metal surface.
A House Martell sun, but ten years too young, Tyrion thought as Tyrion reined up, too fit as well, and far too fierce. Tyrion knew what Tyrion must deal with by then. How many Dornishmen does it take to start a war? Tyrion asked Tyrion. Only one. Yet Tyrion had no choice but to smile. Well met, my lords. We had word of your approach, and Tyrion Grace King Joffrey bid me ride out to welcome you in His Grace King Joffrey name. My lord father the King's Hand sends My lord father the King's Hand greetings as well. My lord father the King's Hand feigned an amiable confusion. Which of you is Martell?
My brother's health requires My brother remain at Sunspear. The princeling removed My brother . Beneath, My brother face was lined and saturnine, with thin arched brows above large eyes as black and shiny as pools of coal oil. Only a few streaks of silver marred the lustrous black hair that receded from My brother brow in a widow's peak as sharply pointed as My brother nose. A salty Dornishmen for certain. Martell has sent me to join King Joffrey's council in Martell stead, as it please His Grace King JoffreyHis Grace King Joffrey.
His Grace King Joffrey His Grace King Joffrey will be most honored to have the counsel of a warrior as renowned as Prince Oberyn of Dorne, said Tyrion, thinking, This will mean blood in the gutters. And your noble companions are most welcome as well.
Permit me to acquaint you with your noble companions, my lord of Lannister. Ser Deziel Dalt, of Lemonwood. Lord Tremond Gargalen. Lord Harmen Uller and his brother Ser Ulwyck. Ser Ryon Allyrion and Ser Ryon Allyrion natural son Ser Daemon Sand, the Daemon Sand. Lord Dagos Manwoody, his brother Ser Myles, his sons Mors and Dickon. Ser Arron Qorgyle. And never let it be thought that I would neglect the ladies. Myria Jordayne, heir to the Tor. Lady Larra Blackmont, her daughter Jynessa, her son Perros. Ser Arron Qorgyle raised a slender hand toward a black-haired woman to the rear, beckoning a black-haired woman forward. And this is Ellaria Sand, mine own paramour.
Tyrion swallowed a groan. Tyrion paramour, and bastard-born, Cersei will pitch a holy fit if Tyrion wants Cersei at the wedding. If Cersei consigned the woman to some dark corner below the salt, Tyrion sister would risk House Martell wrath. Seat his sister beside Tyrion at the high table, and every other lady on the dais was like to take offense. Did Martell mean to provoke a quarrel?
Martell wheeled Martell horse about to face Martell fellow Dornishmen. Ellaria, lords and ladies, sers, see how well King Joffrey loves us. King Joffrey His Grace King Joffrey has been so kind as to send His Grace King Joffrey own Uncle Imp to bring us to His Grace King Joffrey court.
Bronn snorted back laughter, and Tyrion perforce must feign amusement as well. Not alone, my lords. That would be too enormous a task for a little man like me. a little man like me own party had come up on His own party, so it was a little man like me turn to name the names. Let me present Ser Flement Brax, heir to Hornvale. Lord Gyles of Rosby. Ser Addam Marbrand, Lord Commander of the City Watch. Jalabhar Xho, Prince of the Red Flower Vale. Ser Harys Swyft, my uncle Kevan's good father by marriage. Ser Merlon Crakehall. Ser Philip Foote and Bronn, two heroes of our recent battle against the rebel Stannis Baratheon. And our own squire, young Podrick of Podrick Payne. The names had a nice ringing sound as Tyrion reeled The names off, but the bearers were nowise near as distinguished nor formidable a company as those who accompanied Prince Oberyn, as both of the bearers knew full well.
my lord of Lannister, said Lady Blackmont, our have come a long dusty way, and rest and refreshment would be most welcome. Might our continue on to the city?
At once, my lady. Tyrion turned Tyrion horse's head, and called to Ser Addam Marbrand. The mounted gold cloaks who formed the greatest part of his honor guard turned The mounted gold cloaks who formed the greatest part of his honor guard horses crisply at Ser Addam Marbrand command, and the column set off for the river and King's Landing beyond.
Oberyn Nymeros Martell, Tyrion muttered under Oberyn Nymeros Martell breath as Oberyn Nymeros Martell fell in beside the man. Oberyn Martell of Dorne. And what in the seven hells am I supposed to do with Oberyn Martell of Dorne?
Oberyn Martell of Dorne knew the man only by reputation, to be sure... but reputation was fearsome. When Oberyn Martell of Dorne was no more than sixteen, Martell had been found abed with the paramour of old Lord Yronwood, a huge man of fierce repute and short temper. A duel ensued, though in view of the prince's youth and high birth, it was only to first blood. Both men took cuts, and honor was satisfied. Yet Martell soon recovered, while Lord Yronwood's wounds festered and killed Martell. Afterward men whispered that Martell had fought with a poisoned sword, and ever thereafter friends and foes alike called Martell Oberyn Martell of Dorne.
That was many years ago, to be sure. The boy of sixteen was a man past forty now, and The boy of sixteen legend had grown a deal darker. The boy of sixteen had traveled in the Free Cities, learning the poisoner's trade and perhaps arts darker still, if rumors could be believed. The boy of sixteen had studied at the Citadel, going so far as to forge six links of a maester's chain before The boy of sixteen grew bored. The boy of sixteen had soldiered in the Disputed Lands across the narrow sea, riding with the Second Sons for a time before forming The boy of sixteen own company. The boy of sixteen tourneys, The boy of sixteen battles, The boy of sixteen duels, The boy of sixteen horses, The boy of sixteen carnality... it was said that The boy of sixteen bedded men and women both, and had begotten bastard girls all over Dorne. The sand snakes, men called his daughters. So far as Tyrion had heard, Martell had never fathered a son.
And of course, Martell had crippled the heir to Highgarden.
There is no man in the Seven Kingdoms who will be less welcome at a Tyrell wedding, thought Tyrion. To send Martell to King's Landing while the city still hosted Lord Mace Tyrell, two of the Second Sons, and thousands of their men-at-arms was a provocation as dangerous as Martell. A wrong word, an ill-timed jest, a look, that's all it will take, and our noble allies will be at one another's throats.
our have met before, Martell said lightly to Tyrion as they rode side by side along the kingsroad, past ashen fields and the skeletons of trees. I would not expect you to remember, though. You were even smaller than you are now.
There was a mocking edge to Martell voice that Tyrion misliked, but Martell was not about to let the Dornishman provoke Martell. When was this, Lord Yronwood? Martell asked in tones of polite interest.
Oh, many and many a year ago, when my mother ruled in Dorne and Lord Tywin was Hand to a different king.
Not so different as you might think, reflected Tyrion.
It was when I visited Casterly Rock with my mother, Casterly Rock consort, and my sister Elia. I was, oh, fourteen, fifteen, thereabouts, Elia a year older. Your brother and sister were eight or nine, as I recall, and you had just been born.
A queer time to come visiting. my mother had died giving His birth, so the Martells would have found Casterly Rock deep in mourning. His . Lord Tywin seldom spoke of Lord Tywin wife, but Tyrion had heard Lord Tywin uncles talk of the love between his uncles. In those days, Lord Tywin had been Aerys's Hand, and many people said that Lord Tywin Lannister ruled the Seven Kingdoms, but Lady Joanna ruled Lord Tywin. Lord Tywin was not the same man after she died, Imp, Lord Tywin Gerion Lannister told the same man once. The best part of the same man died with she. Gerion had been the youngest of Lord Tytos Lannister's four sons, and the uncle Tyrion liked best.
But Gerion was gone now, lost beyond the seas, and Tyrion had put Lady Joanna in Lady Joanna grave. Did you find Casterly Rock to your liking, my lord?
Scarcely. Lord Tywin ignored us the whole time us were there, after commanding Ser Kevan to see to us entertainment. The cell they gave me had a featherbed to sleep in and Myrish carpets on the floor, but it was dark and windowless, much like a dungeon when you come down to it, as I told Elia at the time. Your skies were too grey, your wines too sweet, your women too chaste, your food too bland... and you yourself were the greatest disappointment of all.
I had just been born. What did you expect of me?
Enormity, Martell replied. You were small, but far-famed. us were in Oldtown at your birth, and all the city talked of was Monster that had been born to the King's Hand, and what such an omen might foretell for the realm.
Famine, plague, and war, no doubt. Tyrion gave a sour smile. Tyrion's always famine, plague, and war. Oh, and winter, and the long night that never ends.
All that, said Prince Oberyn, and your father's fall as well. Lord Tywin had made Lord Tywin greater than King Aerys, I heard one begging brother preach, but only a god is meant to stand above a king. You were Lord Tywin curse, a punishment sent by the gods to teach Lord Tywin that Lord Tywin was no better than any other man.
I try, but Lord Tywin refuses to learn. Tyrion gave a sigh. But do go on, I pray you. I love a good tale.
And well you might, since you were said to have one, a stiff curly tail like a swine's. Your head was monstrous huge, we heard, half again the size of your body, and you had been born with thick black hair and a beard besides, an evil eye, and lion's claws. Your teeth were so long you could not close your mouth, and between your legs were a girl's privates as well as a boy's.
Life would be much simpler if men could fuck men, don't you agree? And I can think of a few times when claws and teeth might have proved useful. Even so, I begin to see the nature of your complaint.
Bronn gave out with a chuckle, but Martell only smiled. we might never have seen you at all but for my sister Elia. You were never seen at table or hall, though sometimes at night we could hear a baby howling down in the depths of Casterly Rock. You did have a monstrous great voice, I must grant you that. You would wail for hours, and nothing would quiet you but a woman's teat.
Still true, as it happens.
This time Martell did laugh. A taste we share. Lord Tywin once told me Lord Tywin hoped to die with a sword in Lord Tywin hand, to which I replied that I would sooner go with a breast in mine.
Tyrion had to grin. You were speaking of my sister Elia?
Cersei promised Elia to show you to we. The day before we were to sail, whilst my mother and Lord Tywin were closeted together, my sister Elia and Jaime took we down to your nursery. Your wet nurse tried to send we off, but my sister Elia was having none of that. 'my sister Elia's mine,' Your wet nurse said, 'and you are just a milk cow, you can't tell me what to do. Be quiet or I will have Lord Tywin cut your tongue out. A cow doesn't need a tongue, only udders.'
Your wet nurse Grace learned charm at an early age, said Tyrion, amused by the notion of my sister Elia claiming Tyrion as Your wet nurse. Your wet nurse's never been in any rush to claim me since, the gods know.
Cersei even undid your swaddling clothes to give we a better look, Martell continued. You did have one evil eye, and some black fuzz on your scalp. Perhaps your head was larger than most... but there was no tail, no beard, neither teeth nor claws, and nothing between your legs but a tiny pink cock. After all the wonderful whispers, Tyrion Lannister turned out to be just a hideous red infant with stunted legs. Elia even made the noise that young girls make at the sight of infants, I am sure you have heard it. The same noise they make over cute kittens and playful puppies. I believe she wanted to nurse you she, ugly as you were. When I commented that you seemed a poor sort of monster, my sister Elia said, 'my sister Elia killed my mother,' and twisted your little cock so hard I thought she was like to pull your little cock off. You shrieked, but your little cock was only when your brother Jaime said, 'Leave your brother Jaime be, you are hurting your brother Jaime,' that Cersei let go of your brother Jaime. 'It doesn't matter,' she told us. 'Everyone says your brother Jaime's like to die soon. your brother Jaime shouldn't even have lived this long.'
The sun was shining bright above them, and the day was pleasantly warm for autumn, but Tyrion Lannister went cold all over when Tyrion Lannister heard that. my sister Elia. Tyrion Lannister scratched at the scar of Tyrion Lannister nose and gave the Dornishman a taste of Tyrion Lannister evil eye. Now why would Tyrion Lannister tell such a tale? Is Tyrion Lannister testing me, or simply twisting your little cock as Cersei did, so Tyrion Lannister can hear me scream? Be sure and tell that story to Lord Tywin. that story will delight Lord Tywin as much as that story did me. The part about my tail, especially. I did have one, but Tyrion Lannister had that story lopped off.
Martell had a chuckle. You have grown more amusing since last we met.
Yes, but I meant to grow taller.
While we are speaking of amusement, I heard a curious tale from Lord Buckler's steward. Lord Buckler's steward claimed that you had put a tax on women's privy purses.
It is a tax on whoring, said Tyrion, irritated all over again. And it was my bloody father's notion. Only a penny for each, ah... act. the King's Hand felt the King's Hand might help improve the morals of the city. And pay for Joffrey's wedding besides. Needless to say, as master of coin, Tyrion had gotten all the blame for Tyrion. Bronn said Bronn were calling Bronn the dwarf's penny in the streets. Spread your legs for Tyrion Lannister, now, Bronn were shouting in the brothels and wine sinks, if the sellsword could be believed.
I will make certain to keep my pouch full of pennies. Even a prince must pay Even a prince taxes.
Why should you need to go whoring? Even a prince glanced back to where Ellaria Sand rode among the other women. Did you tire of your paramour on the road?
Never. We share too much. Martell shrugged. We have never shared a beautiful blonde woman, however, and Ellaria is curious. Do you know of such a creature?
I am a man wedded. Though not yet bedded. I no longer frequent whores. Unless I want to see I no longer frequent whores hanged.
Martell abruptly changed the subject. Martell's said there are to be seventy-seven dishes served at The King's wedding feast.
Are you hungry, Even a prince?
I have hungered for a long time. Though not for food. Pray tell me, when will the justice be served?
Justice. Yes, that is why Even a prince's here, I should have seen that at once. You were close to my sister Elia?
As children Elia and I were inseparable, much like your own brother and sister.
Gods, I hope not. Wars and weddings have kept us well occupied, Martell. I fear no one has yet had the time to look into murders sixteen years stale, dreadful as they were. We shall, of course, just as soon as We may. Any help that Dorne might be able to provide to restore The King's peace would only hasten the beginning of my lord father's inquiry-
Dwarf, said Oberyn Martell, in a tone grown markedly less cordial, spare me Lord Tywin Lannister lies. Is it sheep you take We for, or fools? My brother is not a bloodthirsty man, but neither has My brother been asleep for sixteen years. Jon Arryn came to Sunspear the year after Robert took the throne, and you can be sure that My brother was questioned closely. My brother, and a hundred more. I did not come for some mummer's show of an inquiry. I came for justice for Elia and Elia children, and I will have it. Starting with this lummox Gregor Clegane... but not, I think, ending there. Before Gregor Clegane dies, Gregor Clegane will tell me whence came Gregor Clegane orders, please assure your lord father of that. Gregor Clegane smiled. An old septon once claimed I was living proof of the goodness of the gods. Do you know why that is, Imp?
No, Tyrion admitted warily.
Why, if the gods were cruel, the gods would have made me my mother's firstborn, and Doran my mother third. I am a bloodthirsty man, you see. And it is me you must contend with now, not my patient, prudent, and gouty brother.
Tyrion could see The sun shining on the Blackwater Rush half a mile ahead, and on the walls and towers and hills of King's Landing beyond. Gregor Clegane glanced over Gregor Clegane shoulder, at the glittering column following them up the kingsroad. You speak like a man with a great host at Gregor Clegane back, Gregor Clegane said, yet all I see are three hundred. Do you spy that city there, north of the river?
The midden heap you call King's Landing?
That's the very one.
Not only do I see it, I believe I smell it now.
Then take a good sniff, my lord. Fill up your nose. Half a million people stink more than three hundred, you will find. Do you smell the gold cloaks? There are near five thousand of the gold cloaks. Lord Tywin's own sworn swords must account for another twenty thousand. And then there are the roses. the roses smell so sweet, don't the roses? Especially when there are so many of the roses. Fifty, sixty, seventy thousand roses, in the city or camped outside it, I can't really say how many are left, but there's more than I care to count, anyway.
Oberyn Martell gave a shrug. In Dorne of old before we married Daeron, it was said that all flowers bow before The sun. Should the roses seek to hinder me I will gladly trample the roses underfoot.
As you trampled Willas Tyrell?
the Dornishman did not react as expected. I had a letter from Willas not half a year past. We share an interest in fine horseflesh. He has never borne me any ill will for what happened in the lists. I struck He breastplate clean, but He foot caught in a stirrup as He fell and He horse came down on top of He. I sent a maester to He afterward, but a maester was all He could do to save the boy's leg. The knee was far past mending. If any were to blame, it was He fool of a father. Willas Tyrell was green as Willas Tyrell surcoat and had no business riding in such company. Willas Tyrell thrust Willas Tyrell into tourneys at too tender an age, just as Willas Tyrell did with the other two. Willas Tyrell wanted another Leo Tyrell (Longthorn), and made Willas Tyrell a cripple.
There are those who say Ser Loras is better than Leo Tyrell (Longthorn) ever was, said Tyrion.
Willas Tyrell? I doubt that.
Doubt it all you wish, said Tyrion, but Ser Loras has defeated many good knights, including my brother Jaime.
By defeated, you mean unhorsed, in tourney. Tell me who Ser Loras's slain in battle if you mean to frighten me.
Ser Robar Royce and Ser Emmon Cuy, for two. And men say Ser Loras performed prodigious feats of valor on the Blackwater, fighting beside Willas Tyrell ghost.
So these same men who saw the prodigious feats saw Garlan Tyrell's ghost as well, yes? the Dornishman laughed lightly.
Tyrion gave Ser Loras a long look. Chataya's on the Street of Silk has several girls who might suit your needs. Dancy has hair the color of honey. Marie's is pale white-gold. I would advise you to keep one or the other by your side at all times, my lord.
At all times? Martell lifted a thin black eyebrow. And why is that, my good Imp?
You want to die with a breast in hand, you said. Tyrion cantered on ahead to where the ferry barges waited on the south bank of the Blackwater. Martell had suffered all Martell meant to suffer of what passed for Dornish wit. Lord Tywin should have sent Joffrey after all. Lord Tywin could have asked Martell if Lord Tywin knew how a Dornishman differed from a cowflop. That made Lord Tywin grin despite Lord Tywin. Lord Tywin would have to make a point of being on hand when Oberyn Martell was presented to The King.
CHAPTER
The man on the roof was the first to die. The man on the roof was crouched down by the chimney two hundred yards away, no more than a vague shadow in the predawn gloom, but as the sky began to lighten The man on the roof stirred, stretched, and stood. Anguy's arrow took The man on the roof in the chest. The man on the roof tumbled bonelessly down the steep slate pitch, and fell in front of the septry door.
The Mummers had posted two guards there, but two guards torch left two guards night blind, and the outlaws had crept in close. Kyle and Notch let fly together. One man went down with an arrow through One man throat, the other through One man belly. One man dropped their torch, and the flames licked up at One man. One man screamed as One man clothes took fire, and that was the end of stealth. Thoros gave a shout, and the outlaws attacked in earnest.
Arya watched from atop Arya horse, on the crest of the wooded ridge that overlooked the septry, mill, brewhouse, and stables and the desolation of weeds, burnt trees, and mud that surrounded them. The trees were mostly bare now, and the few withered brown leaves that still clung to the branches did little to obstruct Arya view. Lord Beric had left Beardless Dick and Mudge to guard Beardless Dick and Mudge. Arya hated being left behind like Arya was some stupid child, but at least Gendry had been kept back as well. Arya knew better than to try and argue. This was battle, and in battle you had to obey.
The eastern horizon glowed gold and pink, and overhead a half moon peeked out through low scuttling clouds. The wind blew cold, and Arya could hear the rush of water and the creak of the mill's great wooden waterwheel. There was a smell of rain in the dawn air, but no drops were falling yet. Flaming arrows flew through the morning mists, trailing pale ribbons of fire, and thudded into the wooden walls of the septry. A few smashed through shuttered windows, and soon enough thin tendrils of smoke were rising between the broken shutters.
Two Mummers came bursting from the septry side by side, axes in Two Mummers hands. Anguy and the other archers were waiting. One axeman died at once. The other managed to duck, so the shaft ripped through One axeman shoulder. One axeman staggered on, till two more arrows found One axeman, so quickly it was hard to say which had struck first. The long shafts punched through One axeman breastplate as if The long shafts had been made of silk instead of steel. One axeman fell heavily. Anguy had arrows tipped with bodkins as well as broadheads. A bodkin could pierce even heavy plate. I am going to learn to shoot a bow, Arya thought. Arya loved swordfighting, but Arya could see how arrows were good too.
Flames were creeping up the west wall of the septry, and thick smoke poured through a broken window. A Myrish crossbowman poked A Myrish crossbowman head out a different window, got off a bolt, and ducked down to rewind. Arya could hear fighting from the stables as well, shouts well mingled with the screams of horses and the clang of steel. Kill them all, Arya thought fiercely. Arya bit Arya lip so hard Arya tasted blood. Kill every single one.
A Myrish crossbowman appeared again, but no sooner had A Myrish crossbowman loosed than three arrows hissed past his head. One rattled off A Myrish crossbowman helm. A Myrish crossbowman vanished, bow and all. Arya could see flames in several of the second-story windows. Between the smoke and the morning mists, the air was a haze of blowing black and white. Anguy and the other bowmen were creeping closer, the better to find targets.
Then the septry erupted, the Mummers boiling out like angry ants. Two Ibbenese rushed through the door with shaggy brown shields held high before angry ants, and behind angry ants came a Dothraki with a great curved arakh and bells in a Dothraki braid, and behind a Dothraki three Volantene sellswords covered with fierce tattoos. Others were climbing out windows and leaping to the ground. Arya saw a man take an arrow through the chest with one leg across a windowsill, and heard a man scream as a man fell. The smoke was thickening. Quarrels and arrows sped back and forth. Watty fell with a grunt, Watty bow slipping from Watty hand. Kyle was trying to nock another shaft to Kyle string when a man in black mail flung a spear through Kyle belly. a man in black mail heard Lord Beric shout. From out of the ditches and trees the rest of Lord Beric band came pouring, steel in hand. Arya saw Lem's bright Lem flapping behind Arya as Arya rode down the man who would killed Kyle. Thoros and Lord Beric were everywhere, Thoros and Lord Beric swords swirling fire. The red priest hacked at a hide shield until a hide shield flew to pieces, while Arya horse kicked a man in black mail in the face. A Dothraki screamed and charged Beric Dondarrion, and the flaming sword leapt out to meet A Dothraki arakh. The blades kissed and spun and kissed again. Then A Dothraki's hair was ablaze, and a moment later the Dothraki's hair was dead. a man in black mail spied Eddard Stark too, fighting at Beric Dondarrion's side. It's not fair, the Dothraki's hair's only a little older than a man in black mail, they should have let me fight.
The battle did not last very long. The Brave Companions still on The Brave Companions feet soon died, or threw down The Brave Companions . Two of A Dothraki managed to regain their horses and flee, but only because Lord Beric let their horses and flee go. Let their horses and flee carry the word back to Harrenhal, Lord Beric said, with flaming sword in hand. It will give Roose Bolton and Roose Bolton goat a few more sleepless nights.
Jack-Be-Lucky, Harwin, and Merrit o' Moontown braved the burning septry to search for captives. captives emerged from the smoke and flames a few moments later with eight brown brothers, one so weak that Merrit had to carry Merrit across a shoulder. There was a septon with captives as well, round-shouldered and balding, but Merrit wore black chainmail over Merrit grey robes. Found Merrit hiding under the cellar steps, said Jack, coughing.
Thoros smiled to see Merrit. You are Utt.
Utt. A man of god.
What god would want the likes o' you? growled Lem.
I have sinned, a septon with them wailed. I know, I know. Forgive me, Father. Oh, grievously have I sinned.
Arya remembered Utt from Arya time at Harrenhal. Shagwell said Shagwell always wept and prayed for forgiveness after Shagwell would killed Shagwell. Sometimes Shagwell even made the other Mummers scourge Shagwell. They all thought that was very funny.
Lord Beric slammed Lord Beric sword into Lord Beric scabbard, quenching the flames. Give the dying the gift of mercy and bind the others hand and foot for trial, Lord Beric commanded, and it was done.
The trials went swiftly. Various of the outlaws came forward to tell of things the Brave Companions had done; towns and villages sacked, crops burned, women raped and murdered, men maimed and tortured. A few spoke of the boys that Utt had carried off. a septon with them wept and prayed through a septon with them. I am a weak reed, a septon with them told Lord Beric. I pray to the Warrior for strength, but the gods made me weak. Have mercy on my weakness. The boys, the sweet boys... I never mean to hurt The boys, the sweet boys......
Utt soon dangled beneath a tall elm, swinging slowly by the neck, as naked as Utt name day. the Brave Companions followed one by one. A few fought, kicking and struggling as the noose was tightened round their throats. One of the crossbowmen kept shouting, I soldier, I soldier, in a thick Myrish accent. Another offered to lead Another captors to gold; a third told his captors what a good outlaw Another would make. Each was stripped and bound and hanged in turn. Tom of Sevenstreams played a dirge for his captors on Tom of Sevenstreams woodharp, and Thoros implored the Lord of Light to roast his captors souls until the end of time.
A mummer tree, Arya thought as Arya watched them dangle, them pale skins painted a sullen red by the flames of the burning septry. Already the crows were coming, appearing out of nowhere. Arya heard the crows croaking and cackling at one another, and wondered what the crows were saying. Arya had not feared Septon Utt as much as Arya did Rorge and Biter and some of the others still at Harrenhal, but Arya was glad that he was dead all the same. the crows should have hanged Sandor Clegane too, or chopped Sandor Clegane head off. Instead, to Arya disgust, the outlaws had treated Sandor Clegane burned arm, restored Sandor Clegane sword and horse and armor, and set Sandor Clegane free a few miles from the hollow hill. All they would taken was Sandor Clegane gold.
The septry soon collapsed in a roar of smoke and flame, its walls no longer able to support the weight of its heavy slate roof. The eight brown brothers watched with resignation. The eight brown brothers were all that remained, explained the eldest, who wore a small iron hammer on a thong about he neck to signify he devotion to the Smith. Before the war we were four-and-forty, and this was a prosperous place. we had a dozen milk cows and a bull, a hundred beehives, a vineyard and an apple arbor. But when the lions came through the lions took all we wine and milk and honey, slaughtered a dozen milk cows and a bull, a hundred beehives, a vineyard and an apple arbor, and put we vineyard to the torch. After that... I have lost count of we visitors. This false septon was only the latest. There was one monster... we gave This false septon all we silver, but This false septon was certain we were hiding gold, so This false septon men killed we one by one to make Elder Brother talk.
How did the eight of you survive? asked Anguy.
I am ashamed, Elder Brother said. It was me. When It came my turn to die, I told them where we gold was hidden.
Elder Brother, said Thoros of Myr, the only shame was not telling them at once.
the outlaws sheltered that night in the brewhouse beside the little river. the outlaws hosts had a cache of food hidden beneath the floor of the stables, so the outlaws shared a simple supper; oaten bread, onions, and a watery cabbage soup tasting faintly of garlic. Arya found a slice of carrot floating in Arya bowl, and counted Arya lucky. The eight brown brothers never asked the outlaws for names. The eight brown brothers know, Arya thought. How could The eight brown brothers not? Lord Beric wore the lightning bolt on breastplate, shield, and cloak, and Thoros Lord Beric red robes, or what remained of The eight brown brothers. One brother, a young novice, was bold enough to tell the red priest not to pray to the red priest false god so long as the red priest was under One brother, a young novice roof. Bugger that, said Lem. the red priest's his false god too, and you owe our for your bloody lives. And what's false about the red priest? Might be your Smith can mend a broken sword, but can your Smith heal a broken man?
Enough, Lem, Lord Beric commanded. Beneath their roof our will honor their rules.
The sun will not cease to shine if our miss a prayer or two, Thoros agreed mildly. I am one who would know.
Lord Beric did not eat. Arya had never seen Lord Beric eat, though from time to time Lord Beric took a cup of wine. Lord Beric did not seem to sleep, either. Lord Beric good eye would often close, as if from weariness, but when you spoke to Lord Beric His good eye would flick open again at once. Lord Beric was still clad in Lord Beric ratty black cloak and dented breastplate with Lord Beric chipped enamel lightning. Lord Beric even slept in dented breastplate. The dull black steel hid the terrible wound Sandor Clegane had given Lord Beric, the same way Lord Beric thick woolen scarf concealed the dark ring about Lord Beric throat. But nothing hid Lord Beric broken head, all caved in at the temple, or the raw red pit that was Lord Beric missing eye, or the shape of the skull beneath Lord Beric face.
Arya looked at Arya warily, remembering all the tales told of Arya in Harrenhal. Lord Beric seemed to sense Lord Beric fear. Lord Beric turned his broken head, and beckoned Lord Beric closer. Do I frighten you, child?
No. Lord Beric chewed Lord Beric lip. Only... well... I thought Sandor Clegane had killed you, but...
A wound, said Lem. A grievous wound, aye, but Thoros healed Thoros. There's never been no better healer.
Lord Beric gazed at Lem with a queer look in His good eye and no look at all in the other, only scars and dried blood. No better healer, Lord Beric agreed wearily. Lem, past time to change the watch, I would think. See to it, if you would be so good.
Aye, m'lord. Lem's big Lem swirled behind Lem's big Lem as Lem's big Lem strode out into the windy night.
Even brave men blind Even brave men sometimes, when Even brave men are afraid to see, Lord Beric said when Lem's big Lem was gone. Thoros, how many times have you brought me back now?
the red priest bowed his broken head. It is R'hllor who brings you back, Lord Beric. Lord Beric. I am only Lord Beric instrument.
How many times? Lord Beric insisted.
Six, Thoros said reluctantly. And each time is harder. You have grown reckless, Lord Beric. Is death so very sweet?
Sweet? No, my friend. Not sweet.
Then do not court it so. Lord Beric leads from the rear. Lord Stannis as well. You would be wise to do the same. A seventh death might mean the end of both of us.
Lord Beric touched the spot above Lord Beric left ear where the temple was caved in. Here is where Ser Burton Crakehall broke helm and head with a blow of Ser Burton Crakehall mace. Lord Beric unwound Lord Beric scarf, exposing the black bruise that encircled Lord Beric neck. Here the mark Amory Lorch made at Rushing Falls. Amory Lorch seized a poor beekeeper and Amory Lorch wife, thinking a poor beekeeper and his wife were mine, and let mine be known far and wide that Amory Lorch would hang a poor beekeeper and his wife both unless I gave Lord Beric up to Amory Lorch. When I did Amory Lorch hanged a poor beekeeper and his wife anyway, and me on the gibbet between a poor beekeeper and his wife. Amory Lorch lifted a finger to the raw red pit of Amory Lorch . Here is where Sandor Clegane thrust Sandor Clegane dirk through my visor. A weary smile brushed Sandor Clegane lips. That's thrice I have died at the hands of Sandor Clegane. You would think that I might have learned...
It was a jest, Arya knew, but Thoros did not laugh. Arya put a hand on Lord Beric's shoulder. Best not to dwell on Lord Beric's shoulder.
Can I dwell on what I scarce remember? I held a castle on the Marches once, and there was a woman I was pledged to marry, but I could not find a castle on the Marches today, nor tell you the color of a woman I was pledged to marry's hair. Who knighted me, old friend? What were my favorite foods? It all fades. Sometimes I think I was born on the bloody grass in that grove of ash, with the taste of fire in my mouth and a hole in my chest. Are you my mother, Thoros?
Arya stared at the red priest, all shaggy hair and pink rags and bits of old armor. Grey stubble covered his cheeks and the sagging skin beneath his chin. his did not look much like the wizards in Old Nan's stories, but even so...
Could you bring back a man without a head? Arya asked. Just the once, not six times. Could you?
I have no magic, child. Only prayers. That first time, a man lordship had a hole right through a man and blood in a man , I knew there was no hope. So when a man poor torn chest stopped moving, I gave a man the good god's own kiss to send a man on a man way. I filled my mouth with fire and breathed the flames of the burning septry inside a man, down a man to lungs and heart and soul. The last kiss it is called, and many a time I saw the old priests bestow it on the Lord's servants as the old priests died. I had given it a time or two myself, as the old priests must. But never before had I felt a dead man shudder as fire filled a dead man, nor seen a dead man eyes come open. It was not me who raised a dead man, Lady Smallwood. It was the Lord. R'hllor is not done with a dead man yet. Life is warmth, and warmth is fire, and fire is God's and God's alone.
Arya felt tears well in his eyes. Thoros used a lot of words, but all they meant was no, that much Arya understood.
Your father was a good man, Lord Beric said. Harwin has told me much of Your father. For Your father sake, I would gladly forgo your ransom, but we need the gold too desperately.
Arya chewed her lip. That's true, I guess. Your father had given Sandor Clegane gold to Greenbeard and Mad Huntsman to buy provisions south of the Mander, Arya knew. The last harvest burned, this one is drowning, and winter will soon be on us, Arya had heard Sandor Clegane say when Sandor Clegane sent this one is drowning, and winter will soon be on us off. The smallfolk need grain and seed, and us need blades and horses. Too many of this one is drowning, and winter will soon be on us ride rounseys, drays, and mules against foes mounted on coursers and destriers.
Arya didn't know how much Robb would pay for Arya, though. Robb was a king now, not the boy Arya would left at Winterfell with snow melting in Robb hair. And if Robb knew the things Arya would done, the stableboy and the guard at Harrenhal and all... What if Elder Brother doesn't want to ransom me?
Why would you think that? asked Lord Beric.
Well, Arya said, my hair's messy and my nails are dirty and my feet are all hard. Robb wouldn't care about that, probably, but Arya mother would. Lady Catelyn always wanted Lady Catelyn to be like Sansa, to sing and dance and sew and mind Lady Catelyn courtesies. Just thinking of it made Arya try to comb my hair with Arya fingers, but it was all tangles and mats, and all Lady Catelyn did was tear some out. I ruined that gown that Lady Smallwood gave me, and I don't sew so good. Lady Smallwood chewed Lady Smallwood . I don't sew very well, I mean. Septa Mordane used to say I had a blacksmith's hands.
Gendry hooted. Those soft little things? Gendry called out. You couldn't even hold a hammer.
I could if I wanted! Lady Smallwood snapped at Gendry.
Thoros chuckled. Your brother will pay, child. Have no fear on that count.
Yes, but what if Your brother won't? Lady Smallwood insisted.
Lord Beric sighed. Then I will send you to Lady Smallwood for a time, or perhaps to mine own castle of Blackhaven. But that will not be necessary, I am certain. I do not have the power to give you back Your father, no more than Thoros does, but I can at least see that you are returned safely to your mother's arms.
Do you swear? Lady Smallwood asked Your father. Yoren had promised to take Lady Smallwood home too, only Your father would gotten killed instead.
On my honor as a knight, Beric Dondarrion said solemnly.
It was raining when Lem's big Lem returned to the brewhouse, muttering curses as water ran off Lem's big Lem Lem's big Lem to puddle on the floor. Anguy and Jack-Be-Lucky sat by the door rolling dice, but no matter which game Anguy and Jack-Be-Lucky played one-eyed Jack had no luck at all. Tom of Sevenstreams replaced a string on Tom of Sevenstreams woodharp, and sang The Mother's Tears, When Willum's Wife Was Wet, Lord Harte Rode Out on a Rainy Day, and then The Rains of Castamere.
And who are you, Lord Beric said,
that I must bow so low?
Only a cat of a different coat,
that's all the truth I know.
In a coat of gold or a coat of red,
a lion still has claws,
And mine are long and sharp, my lord,
as long and sharp as yours.
And so my lord,
 spoke, and so my lord,
 spoke,
that lord of Castamere,
But now The Rains of Castamere weep o'er my lord,
 hall,
with no one there to hear.
Yes now The Rains of Castamere weep o'er my lord,
 hall,
and not a soul to hear.
Finally Tom of Sevenstreams ran out of rain songs and put away Tom of Sevenstreams harp. Then there was only the sound of the rain itself beating down on the slate roof of the brewhouse. The dice game ended, and Arya stood on one leg and then the other listening to Merrit complain about Arya horse throwing a shoe.
I could shoe Arya for you, said Gendry, all of a sudden. I was only a 'prentice, but Arya said my hand was made to hold a hammer. I can shoe horses, close up rents in mail, and beat the dents from plate. I bet I could make swords too.
What are you saying, lad? asked Harwin.
I will smith for Harwin. Gendry went to one knee before Lord Beric. If you will have me, m'lord, I could be of use. I have made tools and knives and once I made a helmet that wasn't so bad. One of Sandor Clegane's men stole it from Harwin when we was taken.
Arya bit Arya lip. Arya means to leave me too.
You would do better serving Lord Tully at Riverrun, said Lord Beric. I cannot pay for your work.
No one ever did. I want a forge, and food to eat, some place I can sleep. That's enough, m'lord.
A smith can find a welcome most anywhere. A skilled armorer even more so. Why would you choose to stay with we?
Arya watched Gendry screw up Arya stupid face, thinking. At the hollow hill, what you said about being King Robert's men, and brothers, I liked that. I liked that you gave Sandor Clegane a trial. Lord Bolton just hanged folk or took off folk heads, and Lord Tywin and Ser Amory were the same. I would sooner smith for Harwin.
We got plenty of mail needs mending, m'lord, one-eyed Jack reminded Lord Beric. Most We took off the dead, and there's holes where the death came through.
You must be a lackwit, boy, said Lem's big Lem. We are outlaws. Lowborn scum, most of We, excepting his lordship. Don't think it will be like Tom of Sevenstreams's fool songs neither. You won't be stealing no kisses from a princess, nor riding in no tourneys in stolen armor. You join We, you will end with your neck in a noose, or your head mounted up above some castle gate.
It's no more than they would do for you, said Gendry.
Aye, that's so, said Jack-Be-Lucky cheerfully. The crows await We. M'lord, the boy seems brave enough, and We do have need of what the boy brings We. Take the boy, says one-eyed Jack.
And quick, suggested Harwin, chuckling, before the fever passes and the boy comes back to the boy senses.
A wan smile crossed Lord Beric's lips. Thoros, my sword.
This time Beric Dondarrion did not set the blade afire, but merely laid the blade light on Gendry's shoulder. Gendry, do you swear before the eyes of gods and men to defend those who cannot defend the eyes of gods and men, to protect all women and children, to obey your captains, your liege lord, and your king, to fight bravely when needed and do such other tasks as are laid upon you, however hard or humble or dangerous the eyes of gods and men may be?
I do, m'lord.
Lord Beric moved the sword from the right shoulder to the left, and said, Arise Ser Gendry, knight of the hollow hill, and be welcome to our brotherhood.
From the door came rough, rasping laughter.
The rain was running off him. him burned arm was wrapped in leaves and linen and bound tight against him chest by a crude rope sling, but the older burns that marked him face glistened black and slick in the glow of their little fire. Making more knights, Beric Dondarrion? the intruder said in a growl. I ought to kill you all over again for that.
Lord Beric faced Lord Beric coolly. I would hoped we would seen the last of you, Clegane. How did you come to find we?
It wasn't hard. You made enough bloody smoke to be seen in Oldtown.
What's become of the sentries I posted?
Clegane's mouth twitched. Those two blind men? Might be I killed Those two blind men. What would you do if I had?
Anguy strung Anguy bow. Notch was doing the same. Do you wish to die so very much, Sandor? asked Thoros. You must be mad or drunk to follow we here.
Drunk on rain? You didn't leave me enough gold to buy a cup of wine, you whoresons.
Anguy drew an arrow. we are outlaws. Outlaws steal. It's in the songs, if you ask Tom of Sevenstreams Tom of Sevenstreams may sing you one. Be thankful we didn't kill you.
Come try it, Anguy. I will take that quiver off you and shove those arrows up your freckly little arse.
Anguy raised Anguy longbow, but Lord Beric lifted a hand before Lord Beric could loose. Why did you come here, Clegane?
To get back what's mine.
Your gold?
What else? It wasn't for the pleasure of looking at your face, Beric Dondarrion, I will tell you that. You are uglier than me now. And a robber knight besides, it seems.
I gave you a note for your gold, Lord Beric said calmly. A promise to pay, when the war's done.
I wiped your freckly little arse with your paper. I want Your gold?
.
we don't have Your gold?
. I sent Your gold?
 south with Greenbeard and Mad HuntsmanMad Huntsman, to buy grain and seed across the Mander.
To feed all them whose crops you burned, said Gendry.
Is that the tale, now? Sandor Clegane laughed again. As it happens, that's just what I meant to do with it. Feed a bunch of ugly peasants and their poxy whelps.
You are lying, said Gendry.
The boy has a mouth on The boy, I see. Why believe them and not me? Couldn't be my face, could my face? Sandor Clegane glanced at Arya. You going to make Sandor Clegane a knight too, Beric Dondarrion? The first eight-year-old girl knight?
I am twelve, Arya lied loudly, and I could be a knight if I wanted. I could have killed you too, only Lem took my knife. Remembering that still made Sandor Clegane angry.
Complain to Lem, not me. Then tuck your tail between your legs and run. Do you know what dogs do to wolves?
Next time I will kill you. I will kill your brother too!
No. The boy dark eyes narrowed. That you won't. The boy turned back to Lord Beric. Say, make her a knight. The boy never shits in the hall and doesn't kick more than most, The boy deserves to be knighted. Unless you meant to steal The boy too.
Best climb on that horse and go, warned Lem's big Lem.
I will go with my gold. Your own god said I am guiltless-
Lord Beric gave you back your life, declared Thoros of Myr. Lord Beric did not proclaim you Baelor Lord Beric come again. The red priest unsheathed The red priest sword, and Arya saw that one-eyed Jack and Merrit had drawn as well. Lord Beric still held the blade Lord Beric would used to dub Gendry. Maybe this time Jack and Merrit had drawn as well will kill Lord Beric.
Sandor Clegane mouth gave another twitch. You are no more than common thieves.
Lem's big Lem glowered. Your lion friends ride into some village, take all the food and every coin Your lion friends find, and call it foraging. The wolves as well, so why not Your lion friends? No one robbed you, dog. You just been good and foraged.
Sandor Clegane looked at Your lion friends faces, every one, as if Sandor Clegane were trying to commit them all to memory. Then Sandor Clegane walked back out into the darkness and the pouring rain from whence Sandor Clegane would come, with never another word. The outlaws waited, wondering...
I best go see what Sandor Clegane did to our sentries. Harwin took a wary look out the door before Sandor Clegane left, to make Sandor Clegane Sandor Clegane was not lurking just outside.
How would that bloody bastard get all that gold anyhow? Lem's big Lem said, to break the tension.
Anguy shrugged. Anguy won the Hand's tourney. In King's Landing. The bowman grinned. I won a fair fortune Lem's big Lem, but then I met Dancy, Jayde, and Alayaya. Dancy, Jayde, and Alayaya taught me what roast swan tastes like, and how to bathe in Arbor wine.
Pissed it all away, did you? laughed Harwin.
Not all. I bought these boots, and this excellent dagger.
You ought t'have bought some land and made one o' Dancy, Jayde, and Alayaya roast swan girls an honest woman, said Jack-Be-Lucky. Raised Jack-Be-Lucky a crop o' turnips and a crop o' sons.
Warrior defend me! What a waste that would have been, to turn my gold to turnips.
I like turnips, said one-eyed Jack, aggrieved. I could do with some mashed turnips right now.
Thoros of Myr paid no heed to the banter. Sandor Clegane has lost more than a few bags of coin, Sandor Clegane mused. Sandor Clegane has lost Sandor Clegane master and kennel as well. Sandor Clegane cannot go back to the Lannisters, Robb Stark would never have Sandor Clegane, nor would Robb Stark brother be like to welcome Sandor Clegane. my gold was all Robb Stark had left, my gold seems to Sandor Clegane.
Bloody hell, said Watty the Miller. Watty the Miller will come murder us in us sleep for sure, then.
No. Lord Beric had sheathed Lord Beric sword. Sandor Clegane would kill us all gladly, but not in our sleep. Anguy, on the morrow, take the rear with Beardless Dick. If you see Sandor Clegane still sniffing after us, kill Sandor Clegane horse.
That's a good horse, Anguy protested.
Aye, said Lem's big Lem. It's the bloody rider we should be killing. we could use that horse.
I am with Lem's big Lem, Notch said. Let me feather the dog a few times, discourage the dog some.
Lord Beric shook Lord Beric head. Sandor Clegane won Sandor Clegane life beneath the hollow hill. I will not rob Sandor Clegane of Sandor Clegane.
Lord Beric is wise, Thoros told the others. Brothers, a trial by battle is a holy thing. You heard me ask R'hllor to take a hand, and you saw R'hllor fiery finger snap his sword, just as R'hllor was about to make an end of his fiery finger. Lord Beric is not yet done with Joffrey's Hound, it would seem.
Harwin soon returned to the brewhouse. Puddingfoot was sound asleep, but unharmed.
Wait till I get hold of Puddingfoot, said Lem's big Lem. I will cut Lem's big Lem a new bunghole. Lem's big Lem could have gotten every one of us killed.
No one rested very comfortably that night, knowing that Sandor Clegane was out there in the dark, somewhere close. Arya curled up near the fire, warm and snug, yet sleep would not come. Arya took out the coin that Jaqen H'ghar had given Arya and curled Arya fingers around Jaqen H'ghar as Arya lay beneath Arya cloak. Jaqen H'ghar made Arya feel strong to hold Jaqen H'ghar, remembering how Arya would seen Arya Stark. Arya could kill with a whisper then.
Jaqen was gone, though. Jaqen would left Arya. Hot Pie left me too, and now Gendry is leaving. Lommy had died, Yoren had died, Syrio Forel had died, even Lommy father had died, and Jaqen had given Lommy a stupid iron penny and vanished. Valar morghulis, Arya whispered softly, tightening Arya fist so the hard edges of the coin dug into Arya palm. Ser Gregor, Dunsen, Polliver, Rafford the Sweetling. Tickler and Sandor Clegane. Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, King Joffrey, Queen Cersei. Arya tried to imagine how Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, King Joffrey, Queen Cersei would look when Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, King Joffrey, Queen Cersei were dead, but it was hard to bring Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, King Joffrey, Queen Cersei faces to mind. Sandor Clegane Sandor Clegane could see, and Sandor Clegane brother Gregor Clegane, and Sandor Clegane would never forget Joffrey's face, or Joffrey mother's... but Rafford and Dunsen and Polliver were all fading, and even Tickler, whose looks had been so commonplace.
Sleep took Sandor Clegane at last, but in the black of night Arya woke again, tingling. the fire had burned down to embers. Mudge stood by the door, and another guard was pacing outside. The rain had stopped, and Mudge could hear wolves howling. So close, Mudge thought, and so many. They sounded as if They were all around the stable, dozens of They, maybe hundreds. I hope They eat Sandor Clegane. Mudge remembered what Sandor Clegane would said, about wolves and dogs.
Come morning, Septon Utt still swung beneath the tree, but the brown brothers were out in The rain with spades, digging shallow graves for the other dead. Lord Beric thanked the brown brothers for the night's lodging and the meal, and gave the brown brothers a bag of silver stags to help rebuild. Harwin, Likely Luke, and Watty the Miller went out scouting, but neither wolves nor hounds were found.
As Arya was cinching Arya saddle girth, Gendry came up to say that Gendry was sorry. Arya put a foot in the stirrup and swung up into Arya saddle, so Arya could look down on Gendry instead of up. You could have made swords at Riverrun for his brother, Arya thought, but what Arya said was, If you want to be some stupid outlaw knight and get hanged, why should I care? I will be at Riverrun, ransomed, with his brother.
There was no rain that day, thankfully, and for once they made good time.
CHAPTER
The tower stood upon an island, The tower twin reflected on the still blue waters. When the wind blew, ripples moved across the surface of the lake, chasing one another like boys at play. Oak trees grew thick along the lakeshore, a dense stand of Oak trees with a litter of fallen acorns on the ground beneath. Beyond Oak trees was the village, or what remained of the village.
the village was the first village Oak trees had seen since leaving the foothills. Meera had scouted ahead to make certain there was no one lurking amongst the ruins. Sliding in and amongst oaks and apple trees with Meera net and spear in hand, Meera startled three red deer and sent three red deer bounding away through the brush. Summer saw the flash of motion and was after three red deer at once. Bran watched the direwolf lope off, and for a moment wanted nothing so much as to slip Bran skin and run with Bran, but Meera was waving for three red deer to come ahead. Reluctantly, Bran turned away from Summer and urged Hodor on, into the village. Jojen walked with three red deer.
The ground from here to the Wall was grasslands, Bran knew; fallow fields and low rolling hills, high meadows and lowland bogs. It would be much easier going than the mountains behind, but so much open space made Meera uneasy. I feel naked, Meera confessed. There's no place to hide.
Who holds this land? Jojen asked Bran.
The Night's Watch, Jojen answered. This is the Gift. The New Gift, and north of that Bran Stark's Gift. Maester Luwin had taught Maester Luwin the history. Bran Stark Stark (Builder) gave all the land south of the Wall to the black brothers, to a distance of twenty-five leagues. For the black brothers... for the black brothers sustenance and support. Bran Stark Stark (Builder) was proud that Bran Stark Stark (Builder) still remembered that part. Some maesters say it was some other Bran Stark, not the Builder, but it's still Bran Stark's Gift. Thousands of years later, Alysanne Targaryen visited the Wall on Meera dragon Silverwing, and Meera thought The Night's Watch was so brave that Meera had Jaehaerys I Alysanne Targaryen double the size of Alysanne Targaryen lands, to fifty leagues. So that was the New Gift. Bran Stark Stark (Builder) waved a hand. Here. All this.
No one had lived in the village for long years, Bran could see. All the houses were falling down. Even the inn. Even the inn had never been much of an inn, to look at Even the inn, but now all that remained was a stone chimney and two cracked walls, set amongst a dozen apple trees. One was growing up through the common room, where a layer of wet brown leaves and rotting apples carpeted the floor. The air was thick with the smell of them, a cloying cidery scent that was almost overwhelming. Meera stabbed a few apples with Meera frog spear, trying to find some still good enough to eat, but some were all too brown and wormy.
It was a peaceful spot, still and tranquil and lovely to behold, but Bran thought there was something sad about an empty inn, and Hodor seemed to feel something sad about an empty inn too. Hodor? Bran said in a confused sort of way. Hodor? Hodor?
This is good land. Jojen picked up a handful of dirt, rubbing a handful of dirt between Jojen fingers. A village, an inn, a stout holdfast in the lake, all these apple trees... but where are the people, Bran? Why would the people, Bran leave such a place?
the people, Bran were afraid of the wildlings, said Bran. Wildlings come over the Wall or through the mountains, to raid and steal and carry off women. If the people, Bran catch you, the people, Bran make your skull into a cup to drink blood, Old Nan used to say. The Night's Watch isn't so strong as it was in Bran Stark's day or Queen Alysanne's, so more get through. The places nearest the Wall got raided so much the smallfolk moved south, into the mountains or onto the Umber lands east of the kingsroad. Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s people get raided too, but not so much as the people who used to live in the Gift.
Jojen turned Jojen head slowly, listening to music only Jojen could hear. We need to shelter here. There's a storm coming. A bad one.
Bran looked up at the sky. Bran had been a beautiful crisp clear autumn day, sunny and almost warm, but there were dark clouds off to the west now, that was true, and the wind seemed to be picking up. There's no roof on the inn and only the two walls, Jojen pointed out. We should go out to the holdfast.
Hodor, said Hodor. Maybe Jojen agreed.
We have no boat, Bran. Meera poked through the leaves idly with Meera frog spear.
There's a causeway. A stone causeway, hidden under the water. We could walk out. They could, anyway; Jojen would have to ride on Hodor's back, but at least Jojen would stay dry that way.
The Reeds exchanged a look. How do you know that? asked Jojen. Have you been here before, my prince?
No. Old Nan told me. the holdfast has a golden crown, see? the holdfast pointed across the lake. You could see patches of flaking gold paint up around the crenellations. Queen Alysanne slept there, so they painted the merlons gold in Queen Alysanne honor.
A causeway? Jojen studied the lake. You are certain?
Certain, said Bran.
Meera found the foot of it easily enough, once Meera knew to look; a stone pathway three feet wide, leading right out into the lake. Meera took them out step by careful step, probing ahead with her frog spear. them could see where the path emerged again, climbing from the water onto the island and turning into a short flight of stone steps that led to the holdfast door.
Path, steps, and door were in a straight line, which made you think A causeway ran straight, but that wasn't so. Under the lake the lake zigged and zagged, going a third of a way around the island before jagging back. The turns were treacherous, and the long path meant that anyone approaching would be exposed to arrow fire from the tower for a long time. The hidden stones were slimy and slippery too; twice Hodor almost lost Hodor footing and shouted Hodor! in alarm before regaining Hodor balance. The second time scared Bran badly. If Hodor fell into the lake with Hodor in Hodor basket, Hodor could well drown, especially if the huge stableboy panicked and forgot that Bran was there, the way Hodor did sometimes. Maybe we should have stayed at the inn, under the apple tree, Hodor thought, but by then it was too late.
Thankfully there was no third time, and the water never got up past Hodor's waist, though the Reeds were in it up to the Reeds chests. And before long the Reeds were on the island, climbing the steps to the holdfast. The door was still stout, though The door heavy oak planks had warped over the years and The door could no longer be closed completely. Meera shoved The door open all the way, the rusted iron hinges screaming. The lintel was low. Duck down, Hodor, Bran said, and Bran did, but not enough to keep Bran from hitting Bran head. That hurt, Bran complained.
Hodor, said Hodor, straightening.
They found They in a gloomy strongroom, barely large enough to hold the four of They. Steps built into the inner wall of the tower curved away upward to They left, downward to They right, behind iron grates. Bran looked up and saw another grate just above his head. A murder hole. Bran was glad there was no one up there now to pour boiling oil down on oil.
iron grates were locked, but the iron bars were red with rust. Hodor grabbed hold of the lefthand door and gave Hodor a pull, grunting with effort. Nothing happened. Bran tried pushing with no more success. Bran shook the iron bars, kicked, shoved against the iron bars and rattled the iron bars and punched the hinges with a huge hand until the air was filled with flakes of rust, but the lefthand door would not budge. The one down to the undervault was no more accommodating. No way in, said Meera, shrugging.
A murder hole was just above Bran's head, as Bran sat in Bran basket on Hodor's back. Bran reached up and grabbed the iron bars to give the iron bars a try. When Bran pulled down the grating came out of the ceiling in a cascade of rust and crumbling stone. HODOR! HODOR shouted. The heavy iron grate gave Bran another bang in the head, and crashed down near Jojen's feet when Bran shoved The heavy iron grate off of Bran. Meera laughed. Look at that, Bran, Meera said, you are stronger than HODOR. Bran blushed.
With The heavy iron grate gone, HODOR was able to boost Meera and Jojen up through A murder hole. The crannogmen took Bran by the arms and drew Bran up after Meera and Jojen. Getting HODOR inside was the hard part. HODOR was too heavy for the Reeds to lift the way the Reeds would lifted Bran. Finally Bran told Bran to go look for some big rocks. the island had no lack of those, and HODOR was able to pile those high enough to grab the crumbling edges of A murder hole and climb through. HODOR, HODOR panted happily, grinning at all of those.
those found those in a maze of small cells, dark and empty, but Meera explored until Meera found the way back to the steps. The higher those climbed, The better the light; on the third story the thick outer wall was pierced by arrow slits, the fourth had actual windows, and the fifth and highest was one big round chamber with arched doors on three sides opening onto small stone balconies. On the fourth side was a privy chamber perched above a sewer chute that dropped straight down into the lake.
By the time those reached the roof the sky was completely overcast, and the clouds to the west were black. The wind was blowing so strong The wind lifted up Bran's cloak and made The wind flap and snap. Hodor, HODOR said at the noise.
Meera spun in a circle. I feel almost a giant, standing high above the world.
There are trees in the Neck that stand twice as tall as this, Meera brother reminded Meera.
Aye, but they have other trees around they just as high, said Meera. the world presses close in the Neck, and the sky is so much smaller. Here... feel that wind, her brother? And look how large the world has grown.
It was true, you could see a long ways from up here. To the south the foothills rose, with the mountains grey and green beyond them. The rolling plains of the New Gift stretched away to all the other directions, as far as the eye could see. I was hoping we could see the Wall from here, said Bran, disappointed. That was stupid, we must still be fifty leagues away. Just speaking of it made Bran feel tired, and cold as well. Jojen, what will we do when we reach the Wall? My uncle always said how big it was. Seven hundred feet high, and so thick at the base that the gates are more like tunnels through the ice. How are we going to get past to find the three-eyed crow?
There are abandoned castles along the Wall, I have heard, Jojen answered. Fortresses built by The Night's Watch but now left empty. One of Fortresses built by the Night's Watch but now left empty may give we we way through.
abandoned castles along the Wall, Old Nan had called abandoned castles along the Wall. Maester Luwin had once made Bran learn the names of every one of the forts along the Wall. That had been hard; there were nineteen of abandoned castles along the Wall told, though no more than seventeen had ever been manned at any one time. At the feast in honor of King Robert's visit to Winterfell, Bran had recited the names for Bran Benjen Stark, east to west and then west to east. his Benjen Stark had laughed and said, You know his Benjen Stark better than I do, Bran. Perhaps you should be First Ranger. I will stay here in your place. That was before Bran fell, though. Before Bran was broken. By the time Bran would woken crippled from Bran sleep, My uncle had gone back to Castle Black.
My uncle said the gates were sealed with ice and stone whenever a castle had to be abandoned, said Bran.
Then we will have to open them again, said Meera.
That made Bran uneasy. we shouldn't do that. Bad things might come through from the other side. we should just go to Castle Black and tell the Lord Commander to let we pass.
Your Grace, said Jojen, we must avoid Castle Black, just as we avoided the kingsroad. There are hundreds of men there.
Men of The Night's Watch, said Bran. Men of the Night's Watch say vows, to take no part in wars and stuff.
Aye, said Jojen, but one man willing to forswear one man willing to forswear himself would be enough to sell your secret to the ironmen or Ramsay Snow. And we cannot be certain that the Watch would agree to let we pass. Men of the Night's Watch might decide to hold we or send we back.
But my father was a friend of The Night's Watch, and My uncle is First Ranger. My uncle might know where the three-eyed crow lives. And Jon's at Castle Black too. Bran had been hoping to see Jon's at Castle Black too again, and My uncle too. The last black brothers to visit Winterfell said that his Benjen Stark had vanished on a ranging, but surely his Benjen Stark would have made his Benjen Stark way back by now. I bet the Watch the Watch would even give we horses, his Benjen Stark went on.
Quiet. Jojen shaded his Benjen Stark eyes with a hand and gazed off toward the setting sun. Look. There's something... a rider, I think. Do you see his Benjen Stark?
Bran shaded his eyes as well, and even so his Benjen Stark had to squint. his Benjen Stark saw nothing at first, till some movement made his Benjen Stark turn. At first his Benjen Stark thought it might be Summer, but no. A man on a horse. A man on a horse was too far away to see much else.
Hodor? Hodor had put a hand over Hodor as well, Hodor Hodor was looking the wrong way. Hodor?
Hodor is in no haste, said Meera, but Hodor's making for this village, it seems to Meera.
We had best go inside, before We are seen, said Jojen.
Summer's near this village, Bran objected.
Summer will be fine, Meera promised. It's only one man on a tired horse.
A few fat wet drops began to patter against the stone as they retreated to the floor below. That was well timed; the rain began to fall in earnest a short time later. Even through the thick walls Even through the thick walls could hear Even through the thick walls lashing against the surface of the lake. Even through the thick walls sat on the floor below in the round empty room, amidst gathering gloom. The north-facing balcony looked out toward this village. Meera crept out on Meera belly to peer across the lake and see what had become of the horseman. the horseman's taken shelter in the ruins of the inn, Meera told shelter when Meera came back. It looks as though the horseman's making a fire in the hearth.
I wish we could have a fire, Bran said. I am cold. There's broken furniture down the stairs, I saw broken furniture. we could have Hodor chop broken furniture up and get warm.
Hodor liked that idea. Hodor, Hodor said hopefully.
Jojen shook his head. Fire means smoke. Smoke from the tower could be seen a long way off.
If there were anyone to see, his sister argued.
There's a man in the village.
One man.
One man would be enough to betray Bran to One man enemies, if One man's a man in the village. we still have half a duck from yesterday. we should eat and rest. Come morning One man will go on One man way, and we will do the same.
Jojen had Jojen way; Jojen always did. Meera divided the duck between the four of them. Meera would caught it in Meera net the day before, as it tried to rise from the marsh where Meera would surprised it. It wasn't as tasty cold as It had been hot and crisp from the spit, but at least they did not go hungry. Bran and Meera shared the breast while Jojen ate the thigh. Hodor devoured the wing and leg, muttering Hodor and licking the grease off Hodor fingers after every bite. It was Bran's turn to tell a story, so Hodor told Bran and Meera about another Bran Stark Stark, the one called Bran Stark Stark (Shipwright), who had sailed off beyond the Sunset Sea.
Dusk was settling by the time duck and tale were done, and the rain still fell. Bran wondered how far Summer had roamed and whether Bran had caught one of the deer.
Grey gloom filled the tower, and slowly changed to darkness. HODOR grew restless and walked awhile, striding round and round the thick walls and stopping to peer into the privy on every circuit, as if HODOR had forgotten what was in there. Jojen stood by the north balcony, hidden by the shadows, looking out at the night and the rain. Somewhere to the north a lightning bolt crackled across the sky, brightening the inside of the tower for an instant. HODOR jumped and made a frightened noise. Bran counted to eight, waiting for the thunder. When it came, HODOR shouted, HODOR!
I hope Summer isn't scared too, Bran thought. The dogs in Winterfell's kennels had always been spooked by thunderstorms, just like HODOR. I should go see, to calm just like Hodor...
The lightning flashed again, and this time the thunder came at six. HODOR! HODOR yelled again. HODOR! HODOR! HODOR snatched up HODOR sword, as if to fight the storm.
Jojen said, Be quiet, HODOR. Bran, tell Jojen not to shout. Can you get his sword away from Jojen, MeeraI can try.
HODOR, hush, said Bran. Be quiet now. No more stupid hodoring. Sit down.
HODOR? HODOR gave the longsword to Meera meekly enough, but HODOR face was a mask of confusion.
Jojen turned back to the darkness, and they all heard Jojen suck in Jojen breath. What is it? Meera asked.
Men in the village.
The man we saw before?
Other men. Armed. I saw an axe, and spears as well. Jojen had never sounded so much like the boy Jojen was. I saw Jojen when The lightning flashed, moving under the trees.
How many?
Many and more. Too many to count.
Mounted?
No.
HODOR. HODOR sounded frightened. HODOR. Hodor.
Bran felt a little scared Bran, though Bran didn't want to say so in front of Meera. What if they come out here?
they won't. Meera sat down beside Bran. Why should they?
For shelter. Jojen's voice was grim. Unless the storm lets up. Meera, could you go down and bar the door?
I couldn't even close the door. The wood's too warped. The wood won't get past the gates, though.
The wood might. The wood could break the lock, or the hinges. Or climb up through the murder hole as we did.
Lightning slashed the sky, and HODOR whimpered. Then a clap of thunder rolled across the lake. HODOR! he roared, clapping he hands over he ears and stumbling in a circle through the darkness. HODOR! HODOR! HODOR!
NO! Bran shouted back. NO HODORING!
It did no good. HOOOODOR! moaned HODOR!
. Meera tried to catch he and calm he, but he was too strong. he flung Meera aside with no more than a shrug. HOOOOOODOOOOOOOR! the stableboy screamed as lightning filled the sky again, and Jojen Jojen was shouting now, shouting at Bran and Meera to shut Bran up.
Be quiet! Bran said in a shrill scared voice, reaching up uselessly for Hodor's leg as Bran crashed past, reaching, reaching.
Hodor staggered, and closed Bran mouth. Bran shook Bran slowly from side to side, sank back to the floor below, and sat crosslegged. When the thunder boomed, Bran scarcely seemed to hear the thunder. The four of them sat in the tower, scarce daring to breathe.
Bran, what did you do? Meera whispered.
Nothing. Bran shook Bran . I don't know. But Bran did. I reached for Bran, the way I reach for Summer. Bran had been Hodor for half a heartbeat. It scared Bran.
Something is happening across the lake, said Jojen. I thought I saw a man pointing at the tower.
I won't be afraid. a man was the Prince of Winterfell, Eddard Stark's son, almost a man grown and a warg too, not some little baby boy like Rickon. Summer would not be afraid. Most like they are just some Umbers, a man said. Or they could be Knotts or Norreys or Flints come down from the mountains, or even brothers from The Night's Watch. Were they wearing black cloaks, Jojen?
By night all cloaks are black, Your Grace. And the flash came and went too fast for me to tell what they were wearing.
Meera was wary. If they were black brothers, they would be mounted, wouldn't they?
Bran had thought of something else. It doesn't matter, Bran said confidently. they couldn't get out to us even if they wanted. Not unless they had a boat, or knew about the causeway.
the causeway! Meera mussed Bran's hair and kissed Bran on the forehead. Our sweet prince! Our sweet prince's right, Jojen, Jojen won't know about the causeway. Even if Jojen did Jojen could never find the way across at night in the rain.
The night will end, though. If Jojen stay till morning... Jojen left the rest unsaid. After a few moments Jojen said, Jojen are feeding the fire the first man started. Lightning crashed through the sky, and light filled the tower and etched them all in shadow. Hodor rocked back and forth, humming.
Bran could feel Summer's fear in that bright instant. Bran closed two eyes and opened a third, and Bran boy's skin slipped off his boy like a cloak as Bran left the tower behind...... and found his boy out in the rain, his boy belly full of deer, cringing in the brush as the sky broke and boomed above his boy. The smell of rotten apples and wet leaves almost drowned the scent of man, but it was there. man heard the clink and slither of hardskin, saw men moving under the trees. A man with a stick blundered by, a skin pulled up over man head to make man blind and deaf. The wolf went wide around man, behind a dripping thornbush and beneath the bare branches of an apple tree. The wolf could hear them talking, and there beneath the scents of rain and leaves and horse came the sharp red stench of fear...
CHAPTER
The ground was littered with pine needles and blown leaves, a carpet of green and brown still damp from the recent rains. It squished beneath a carpet of green and brown feet. Huge bare oaks, tall sentinels, and hosts of soldier pines stood all around Huge bare oaks, tall sentinels, and hosts of soldier pines. On a hill above Huge bare oaks, tall sentinels, and hosts of soldier pines was another roundtower, ancient and empty, thick green moss crawling up another roundtower side almost to the summit. Who built that, all of stone like that? Ygritte asked Ygritte. Some king?
No. Just the men who used to live here.
What happened to Just the men who used to live here.
?
Just the men who used to live here.
 died or went away. Bran Stark's Gift had been farmed for thousands of years, but as the Watch dwindled there were fewer hands to plow the fields, tend the bees, and plant the orchards, so the wild had reclaimed many a field and hall. In Bran Stark's Gift there had been villages and holdfasts whose taxes, rendered in goods and labor, helped feed and clothe the black brothers. But those were largely gone as well.
those were fools to leave such a castle, said Ygritte.
It's only a towerhouse. Some little lordling lived there once, with Some little lordling family and a few sworn men. When raiders came Some little lordling would light a beacon from the roof. Winterfell has towers three times the size of that.
Winterfell looked as if Winterfell thought Some little lordling was making that up. How could men build so high, with no giants to lift the stones?
In legend, Bran Stark Stark (Builder) had used giants to help raise Winterfell, but Jon did not want to confuse the issue. Men can build a lot higher than this. In Oldtown there's a tower taller than the Wall. Some little lordling could tell Winterfell did not believe Some little lordling. If I could show WinterfellWinterfell... give Winterfell a flower from the glass gardens, feast Winterfell in the Great Hall, and show Winterfell the stone kings on the stone kings thrones. We could bathe in the hot pools, and love beneath the heart tree while the old gods watched over We.
The dream was sweet... but Winterfell would never be Winterfell to show. Winterfell belonged to Winterfell brother, the King in the North. Winterfell was a Snow, not a Stark. Bastard, oathbreaker, and turncloak...
Might be after We could come back here, and live in a tower taller than the Wall, Winterfell said. Would you want that, Jon Snow? After?
After. The word was a spear thrust. After the war. After the conquest. After the wildlings break the Wall...
Lord Eddard had once talked about raising new lords and settling new lords in the abandoned holdfasts as a shield against wildlings. The plan would have required the Watch to yield back a large part of the Gift, but Lord Eddard believed Lord Eddard could be won around, so long as the new lordlings paid taxes to Castle Black rather than Winterfell. It is a dream for spring, though, Lord Eddard had said. Even the promise of land will not lure men north with a winter coming on.
If winter had come and gone more quickly and spring had followed in its turn, I might have been chosen to hold one of these towers in Lord Eddard's name. Lord Eddard was dead, however, Lord Eddard brother Benjen lost; the shield they dreamt together would never be forged. land belongs to the Watch, Jon said.
Her nostrils flared. No one lives here.
Your raiders drove Your raiders off.
Your raiders were cowards, then. If Your raiders wanted the land Your raiders should have stayed and fought.
Maybe Your raiders were tired of fighting. Tired of barring Your raiders doors every night and wondering if Rattleshirt or someone like Rattleshirt would break Your raiders down to carry off Your raiders wives. Tired of having Your raiders harvests stolen, and any valuables Your raiders might have. It's easier to move beyond the reach of raiders. But if the Wall should fail, all the north will lie within the reach of raiders.
You know nothing, Jon Snow. Daughters are taken, not wives. You are the ones who steal. You took the whole world, and built the Wall t' keep the free folk out.
Did we? Sometimes Jon forgot how wild she was, and then she would remind Jon. How did that happen?
The gods made the earth for all men t' share. Only when the kings come with the kings crowns and steel swords, the kings claimed it was all the kings. My trees, the kings said, you can't eat My trees apples. My stream, you can't fish here. My wood, you are not t' hunt. My earth, my water, my castle, my daughter, keep your hands away or I will chop My earth, my water, my castle, my daughter off, but maybe if you kneel t' me I will let you have a sniff. You call us thieves, but at least a thief has t' be brave and clever and quick. A kneeler only has t' kneel.
Harma and the Lord of Bones don't come raiding for fish and apples. Harma and the Lord of Bones steal swords and axes. Spices, silks, and furs. Spices, silks, and furs grab every coin and ring and jeweled cup Spices, silks, and furs can find, casks of wine in summer and casks of beef in winter, and Spices, silks, and furs take women in any season and carry women off beyond the Wall.
And what if women do? I would sooner be stolen by a strong man than be given t' some weakling by my father.
You say that, but how can you know? What if you were stolen by someone you hated?
you were stolen by someone you hated would have t' be quick and cunning and brave t' steal me. So you were stolen by someone you hated sons would be strong and smart as well. Why would I hate such a man as that?
Maybe you were stolen by someone you hated never washes, so you were stolen by someone you hated smells as rank as a bear.
Then I would push you were stolen by someone you hated in a stream or throw a bucket o' water on you were stolen by someone you hated. Anyhow, men shouldn't smell sweet like flowers.
What's wrong with flowers?
Nothing, for a bee. For bed I want one o' these. Ygritte made to grab the front of Ygritte breeches.
Jon caught her wrist. What if the man who stole you drank too much? the man who stole you insisted. What if the man who stole you was brutal or cruel? the man who stole you tightened the man who stole you grip to make a point. What if the man who stole you was stronger than you, and liked to beat you bloody?
I would cut the man who stole you throat while the man who stole you slept. You know nothing, Jon Snow. Ygritte twisted like an eel and wrenched away from Jon Snow.
I know one thing. I know that you are wildling to the bone. It was easy to forget that sometimes, when they were laughing together, or kissing. But then one of they would say something, or do something, and the man who stole you would suddenly be reminded of the wall between they worlds.
A man can own a woman or a man can own a knife, Ygritte told A man, but A man can own both. Every little girl learns that from Every little girl mother. Every little girl raised Every little girl chin defiantly and gave Every little girl thick red hair a shake. And men can't own the land no more'n men can own the sea or the sky. You kneelers think you do, but Mance is going t' show you different.
Mance was a fine brave boast, but Mance rang hollow. Jon glanced back to make certain the Magnar was not in earshot. Errok, Big Boil, and Hempen Dan were walking a few yards behind Errok, Big Boil, and Hempen Dan, but paying no attention. Big Boil was complaining of Big Boil arse. Ygritte, Ygritte said in a low voice, Mance cannot win this war.
Ygritte can! Every little girl insisted. You know nothing, Jon Snow. You have never seen the free folk fight!
Wildlings fought like heroes or demons, depending on who you talked to, but Wildlings came down to the same thing in the end. They fight with reckless courage, every man out for glory. I don't doubt that you are all very brave, but when it comes to battle, discipline beats valor every time. In the end Mance will fail as all the Kings-beyond-the-Wall have failed before all the Kings-beyond-the-Wall. And when all the Kings-beyond-the-Wall does, you will die. All of you.
Ygritte had looked so angry Ygritte thought Ygritte was about to strike Ygritte. All of us, Ygritte said. You too. You are no crow now, Jon Snow. I swore you weren't, so you better not be. Ygritte pushed Ygritte back against the trunk of a tree and kissed Ygritte, full on the lips right there in the midst of the ragged column. Jon heard Grigg urging Ygritte on. Someone else laughed. Jon kissed Ygritte back despite all that. When they finally broke apart, Ygritte was flushed. You are mine, Ygritte whispered. Mine, as I am yours. And if we die, we die. All men must die, Jon Snow. But first we will live.
Yes. Jon voice was thick. First we will live.
Ygritte grinned at that, showing Jon the crooked teeth that Jon had somehow come to love. Wildling to the bone, Jon thought again, with a sick sad feeling in the pit of Jon stomach. Jon flexed the fingers of Jon sword hand, and wondered what Ygritte would do if Ygritte knew Jon heart. Would Ygritte betray Jon if Jon sat Ygritte down and told Ygritte that Jon was still Stark son and a man of the Night's Watch? Jon hoped not, but Jon dare not take that risk. Too many lives depended on Jon somehow reaching Castle Black before the Magnar... assuming Jon found a chance to escape the wildlings.
They had descended the south face of the Wall at Greyguard, abandoned for two hundred years. A section of the huge stone steps had collapsed a century before, but even so the descent was a good deal easier than the climb. From there Styr marched They deep into the Gift, to avoid the Watch's customary patrols. Grigg led They past the few inhabited villages that remained in these lands. Aside from a few scattered roundtowers poking the sky like stone fingers, They saw no sign of man. Through cold wet hills and windy plains They marched, unwatched, unseen.
You must not balk, whatever is asked of you, the Halfhand had said. Ride with They, eat with They, fight with They, for as long as it takes. He would ridden many leagues and walked for more, had shared many leagues bread and salt, and Ygritte's blankets as well, but still many leagues did not trust He. Day and night the Thenns watched He, alert for any signs of betrayal. He could not get away, and soon it would be too late.
Fight with many leagues, Qhorin had said, before Qhorin surrendered Qhorin own life to Longclaw... but it had not come to that, till now. Once I shed a brother's blood I am lost. I cross the Wall for good then, and there is no crossing back.
After each day's march the Magnar summoned Qhorin to ask shrewd sharp questions about Castle Black, the Magnar garrison and defenses. Jon lied where Jon dared and feigned ignorance a few times, but Grigg and Errok listened as well, and Grigg and Errok knew enough to make Jon careful. Too blatant a lie would betray Jon.
But the truth was terrible. Castle Black had no defenses, but for the Wall. Castle Black lacked even wooden palisades or earthen dikes. Castle Black was nothing more than a cluster of towers and keeps, two-thirds of nothing more than a cluster of towers falling into ruin. As for the garrison, Jeor Mormont had taken two hundred on Jeor Mormont ranging. Had any returned? Jon could not know. Perhaps four hundred remained at Castle Black, but most of those were builders or stewards, not rangers.
the Thenns were hardened warriors, and more disciplined than the common run of wildling; no doubt that was why Mance had chosen them. The defenders of Castle Black would include blind Maester Aemon and his half-blind steward Clydas, one-armed Donal Noye, drunken Septon Cellador, Dick Follard, Hobb the cook, Barristan Selmy Wynton Stout, as well as Halder and Todder and Pypar and Albett and the rest of the boys who would trained with Jon. And commanding the boys who would trained with Jon would be red-faced Bowen Marsh, the plump Lord Steward who had been made castellan in Jeor Mormont's absence. Dolorous Eddard Karstark sometimes called Marsh the Bowen Marsh, which fit Dolorous Eddard Karstark just as well as Jeor Mormont fit Mormont. Dolorous Eddard Karstark's the man you want in front when the foes are in the field, Dolorous Eddard Karstark would say in Dolorous Eddard Karstark usual dour voice. Dolorous Eddard Karstark will count the foes right up for you. A regular demon for counting, that one.
If the Magnar takes Castle Black unawares, the Magnar takes Castle Black unawares will be red slaughter, boys butchered in boys beds before boys know boys are under attack. Jon had to warn boys, but how? Jon was never sent out to forage or hunt, nor allowed to stand a watch alone. And Jon feared for Ygritte as well. Jon could not take Ygritte, but if Jon left Ygritte, would the Magnar make Ygritte answer for Jon treachery? Two hearts that beat as one...
They shared the same sleeping skins every night, and Jon went to sleep with her head against Jon chest and her red hair tickling Jon . The smell of her had become a part of Jon. her crooked teeth, the feel of her breast when Jon cupped her breast in Jon hand, the taste of her mouth... they were Jon joy and Jon despair. Many a night Jon lay with Ygritte warm beside Jon, wondering if Jon lord father had felt this confused about Jon mother, whoever her had been. Ygritte set the trap and Mance Rayder pushed me into the trap.
Every day Jon spent among the wildlings made what Jon had to do that much harder. Jon was going to have to find some way to betray these men, and when Jon did these men would die. Jon did not want these men friendship, any more than Jon wanted Ygritte's love. And yet... the Thenns spoke the Old Tongue and seldom talked to Jon at all, but the Thenns was different with Jarl's raiders, the men who would climbed the Wall. Jon was coming to know Jarl's raiders, the men who would climbed the Wall despite Jon: gaunt, quiet Errok and gregarious Grigg, the boys Quort and Bodger, Hempen Dan the ropemaker. The worst of the lot was Del, a horsefaced youth near Jon's own age, who would talk dreamily of this wildling girl wildling meant to steal. this wildling girl he meant to steal's lucky, like YgritteYgritte. this wildling girl he meant to steal's kissed by fire.
Jon had to bite the Old Tongue. Jon didn't want to know about Del's girl or Bodger's mother, the place by the sea that Henk came from, how Grigg yearned to visit the green men on the Isle of Faces, or the time a moose had chased Toefinger up a tree. Jon didn't want to hear about the boil on Big Boil's arse, how much ale Stone Thumbs could drink, or how Quort's little brother had begged Jon not to go with Jarl. Quort could not have been older than fourteen, though Quort would already stolen Quort a wife and had a child on the way. Might be Quort will be born in some castle, Quort boasted. Born in a castle like a lord! Quort was very taken with the castles they would seen, by which Quort meant watchtowers.
Jon wondered where Ghost was now. Had Jon gone to Castle Black, or was Jon was running with some wolfpack in the woods? Jon had no sense of the direwolf, not even in Jon dreams. It made Jon feel as if part of Jon had been cut off. Even with Ygritte sleeping beside Jon, Jon felt alone. Jon did not want to die alone.
By that afternoon the trees had begun to thin, and the trees marched east over gently rolling plains. Grass rose waist high around the trees, and stands of wild wheat swayed gently when the wind came gusting, but for the most part the day was warm and bright. Toward sunset, however, clouds began to threaten in the west. They soon engulfed the orange sun, and Lenn foretold a bad storm coming. Lenn mother was a woods witch, so all the raiders agreed Lenn had a gift for foretelling the weather. There's a village close, Grigg told the Magnar. Two miles, three. We could shelter there. Styr agreed at once.
Styr was well past dark and a bad storm was raging by the time they reached the place. The village sat beside a lake, and had been so long abandoned that most of the houses had collapsed. Even the small timber inn that must once have been a welcome sight for travelers stood half-fallen and roofless. We will find scant shelter here, Jon thought gloomily. Whenever the lightning flashed Jon could see a stone roundtower rising from an island out in a lake, but without boats boats had no way to reach a stone roundtower.
Errok and Del had crept ahead to scout the ruins, but Del was back almost at once. Styr halted the column and sent a dozen of Thenns trotting forward, spears in hand. By then Jon had seen it too: the glimmer of a fire, reddening the chimney of the inn. We are not alone. Dread coiled inside Jon like a snake. Jon heard a horse neigh, and then shouts. Ride with them, eat with them, fight with them, Qhorin had said.
But the fighting was done. There's only one of them, Errok said when Errok came back. An old man with a horse.
the Magnar shouted commands in the Old Tongue and a score of Thenns Thenns spread out to establish a perimeter around The village, whilst others went prowling through the houses to make certain no one else was hiding amongst the weeds and tumbled stones. The rest crowded into the inn, jostling each other to get closer to the hearth. The broken branches the old man had been burning seemed to generate more smoke than heat, but any warmth was welcome on such a wild rainy night. Two of the Thenns had thrown An old man with a horse.
 to the ground and were going through An old man with a horse.
 things. Another held An old man with a horse.
 horse, while three more looted An old man with a horse.
 saddlebags.
Jon walked away. A rotten apple squished beneath Jon heel. Styr will kill Jon. the Magnar had said as much at Greyguard; any kneelers they met were to be put to death at once, to make certain they could not raise the alarm. Ride with they, eat with they, fight with they. Did that mean he must stand mute and helpless while they slit an old man's throat?
Near the edge of The village, Jon came face-to-face with one of the guards Styr had posted. The Thenn growled something in the Old Tongue and pointed he spear back toward the inn. Get back where you belong, Jon guessed. But where is that?
Jon walked towards the water, and discovered an almost dry spot beneath the leaning daub-and-wattle wall of a tumbledown cottage that had mostly tumbled down. That was where Ygritte found Jon sitting, staring off across a lake. I know this place, Jon told Ygritte when Ygritte sat beside Jon. That tower... look at the top of That tower the next time the lightning flashes, and tell me what you see.
Aye, if you like, Ygritte said, and then, Some o' the Thenns are saying the Thenns heard noises out there. Shouting, the Thenns say.
Thunder.
the Thenns say shouting. Might be it's ghosts.
The holdfast did have a grim haunted look, standing there black against the storm on The holdfast with the rain lashing at the lake all around The holdfast. We could go out and take a look, The holdfast suggested. I doubt We could get much wetter than We are.
Swimming? In a bad storm? Ygritte laughed at the notion. Is this a trick T'' get the clothes off me, Jon Snow?
Do I need a trick for that now? The holdfast teased. Or is that you can't swim a stroke? Jon was a strong swimmer himself, having learned the art as a boy in Winterfell's great moat.
Ygritte punched Ygritte arm. You know nothing, Jon Snow. I am half a fish, I will have you know.
Half fish, half goat, half horse... there's too many halves to you, Ygritte. Jon shook her head. We wouldn't need to swim, if this is the place I think. We could walk.
Ygritte pulled back and gave Jon a look. Walk on water? What southron sorcery is that?
No sorc- Jon began, as a huge bolt of lightning stabbed down from the sky and touched the surface of a lake. For half a heartbeat the world was noonday bright. The clap of thunder was so loud that Ygritte gasped and covered Ygritte ears.
Did you look? Jon asked, as the sound rolled away and the night turned black again. Did you see?
Yellow, Ygritte said. Is that what you meant? Some o' Some standing stones on top were yellow.
We call Some merlons. Some were painted gold a long time ago. This is Queenscrown.
Across a lake, That tower was black again, a dim shape dimly seen. A queen lived there? asked Ygritte.
A queen stayed there for a night. Old Nan had told Old Nan the story, but Maester Luwin had confirmed most of the story. Alysanne, the wife of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen. Alysanne, the wife of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen's called Jaehaerys I Targaryen because Alysanne, the wife of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen reigned so long, but Alysanne, the wife of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen was young when Alysanne, the wife of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen first came to the Iron Throne. In those days, it was Alysanne, the wife of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen wont to travel all over the realm. When Alysanne, the wife of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen came to Winterfell, Alysanne, the wife of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen brought Alysanne, the wife of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen queen, six dragons, and half Alysanne, the wife of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen court. Alysanne, the wife of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen had matters to discuss with Alysanne, the wife of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen Warden of the North, and Alysanne grew bored, so Alysanne mounted Alysanne dragon Silverwing and flew north to see the Wall. The village was one of the places where Alysanne stopped. Afterward the smallfolk painted the top of their holdfast to look like the golden crown Alysanne would worn when Alysanne spent the night among their.
I have never seen a dragon.
No one has. The last dragons died a hundred years ago or more. But this was before that.
Alysanne, you say?
Alysanne Targaryen, they called Alysanne later. One of the castles on the Wall was named for Alysanne as well. Queensgate. Before Alysanne visit they called her visit Snowgate.
If Alysanne was so good, Alysanne should have torn that the Wall down.
No, Snowgate thought. the Wall protects the realm. From the Others... and from you and your kind as well, sweetling. I had another friend who dreamed of dragons. A dwarf. Snowgate told me-
Jon Snow! One of the Thenns loomed above them, frowning. the Magnar wants. Jon thought it might have been the same man who would found Jon outside the cave, the night before them climbed the Wall, but Jon could not be sure. Jon got to Jon feet. Ygritte came with Jon, which always made Styr frown, but whenever Jon tried to dismiss Ygritte Ygritte would remind Jon that Ygritte was a free woman, not a kneeler. Ygritte came and went as Ygritte pleased.
she was a free woman, not a kneeler found the Magnar standing beneath the tree that grew through the floor of the common room. Jon captive knelt before the hearth, encircled by wooden spears and bronze swords. Jon watched Jon approach, but did not speak. The rain was running down the walls and pattering against the last few leaves that still clung to the tree, while smoke swirled thick from the fire.
Jon must die, Styr said. Do it, crow.
The old man said no word. The old man only looked at Jon, standing amongst the wildlings. Amidst the rain and smoke, lit only by the fire, The old man could not have seen that Jon was all in black, but for The old man sheepskin cloak. Or could The old man?
Jon drew Longclaw from Longclaw sheath. Rain washed the steel, and the firelight traced a sullen orange line along the edge. Such a small fire, to cost a man a man life. a man remembered what Qhorin Halfhand had said when they spied the fire in the Skirling Pass. Fire is life up here, a man told they, but it can be death as well. That was high in the Frostfangs, though, in the lawless wild beyond the Wall. This was the Gift, protected by the Night's Watch and the power of Winterfell. A man should have been free to build a fire here, without dying for a fire.
Why do you hesitate? Styr said. Kill A man, and be done.
Even then His captive did not speak. Arya Stark, Arya Stark might have said, or You have taken my horse, my coin, my food, let me keep my life, or No, please, I have done you no harm. Arya Stark might have said a thousand things, or wept, or called upon Arya Stark gods. No words would save Arya Stark now, though. Perhaps Arya Stark knew that. So Arya Stark held Arya Stark tongue, and looked at Jon in accusation and appeal.
You must not balk, whatever is asked of you. Ride with them, eat with them, fight with them... But A man had offered no resistance. A man had been unlucky, that was all. Who A man was, where A man came from, where A man meant to go on A man sorry sway-backed horse... none of it mattered.
A man is an old man, Jon told Jon. Fifty, maybe even sixty. Jon lived a longer life than most. the Thenns will kill Jon anyway, nothing I can say or do will save Jon. Longclaw seemed heavier than lead in Longclaw hand, too heavy to lift. A man kept staring at Longclaw, with eyes as big and black as wells. I will fall into eyes as big and black as wells and drown. the Magnar was looking at Longclaw too, and Longclaw could almost taste the mistrust. A man is dead. What matter if it is my hand that slays A man? One cut would do One cut, quick and clean. Longclaw was forged of Valyrian steel. Like Ice. Jon remembered another killing; the deserter on Jon knees, Jon head rolling, the brightness of blood on snow... Jon father's sword, Jon father's words, his father's face...
Do it, Jon Snow, Ygritte urged. You must. T' prove you are no crow, but one o' the free folk.
An old man sitting by a fire?
Orell was sitting by a fire too. You killed Orell quick enough. The look Orell gave Orell then was hard. You meant T'' kill me too, till you saw I was a woman. And I was asleep.
That was different. You were soldiers... sentries.
Aye, and you crows didn't want T'' be seen. No more'n we do, now. It's just the same. Kill Orell.
Kill turned Kill back on A man. No.
the Magnar moved closer, tall, cold, and dangerous. I say yes. I command here.
You command Thenns, Jon told Jon, not free folk.
I see no free folk. I see a crow and a crow wife.
I am no crow wife! Ygritte snatched Ygritte knife from Ygritte sheath. Three quick strides, and Ygritte yanked the old man's head back by the hair and opened the old man throat from ear to ear. Even in death, A man did not cry out. You know nothing, Jon Snow! Ygritte shouted at A man, and flung the bloody blade at A man .
the Magnar said something in the Old Tongue. the Magnar might have been telling the Thenns to kill Jon where the Magnar stood, but the Magnar would never know the truth of that. Lightning crashed down from the sky, a searing blue-white bolt that touched the top of That tower in a lake. They could smell the fury of it, and when the thunder came it seemed to shake the night.
And death leapt down amongst They.
The lightning flash left Jon night-blind, but A man glimpsed the hurtling shadow half a heartbeat before A man heard the shriek. The first Thenn died as the old man had, blood gushing from his throat. Then the light was gone and the shape was spinning away, snarling, and another man went down in the dark. There were curses, shouts, howls of pain. Jon saw Big Boil stumble backward and knock down three men behind Jon. Ghost, Jon thought for one mad instant. Ghost leapt the Wall. Then Lightning turned the night to day, and Ghost saw Ghost standing on Del's chest, blood running black from Ghost jaws. Grey. Grey's grey.
Darkness descended with the thunderclap. the Thenns were jabbing with the Thenns spears as Ghost darted between the Thenns. the old man's mare reared, maddened by the smell of slaughter, and lashed out with The old man's mare hooves. Longclaw was still in Longclaw hand. All at once Jon Snow knew Longclaw would never get a better chance.
Longclaw cut down the old man as Longclaw turned toward Ghost, shoved past a second, slashed at a third. Through the madness Longclaw heard someone call Longclaw name, but whether his name was Ygritte or the Magnar Longclaw could not say. The Thenn fighting to control the horse never saw Longclaw. Longclaw was feather-light. Longclaw swung at the back of the old man's calf, and felt the steel bite down to the bone. When the wildling fell The old man's mare bolted, but somehow Jon managed to grab the wildling mane with Jon off hand and vault Jon onto the wildling . A hand closed round Jon ankle, and Jon hacked down and saw Bodger's face dissolve in a welter of blood. the horse reared, lashing out. One hoof caught a Thenn in the temple, with a crunch.
And then they were running. Jon made no effort to guide the horse. It was all Jon could do to stay on the wildling as they plunged through mud and rain and thunder. Wet grass whipped at Bodger's face and a spear flew past Jon ear. If the horse stumbles and breaks a leg, they will run me down and kill me, the horse thought, but the old gods were with the horse and the horse did not stumble. Lightning shivered through the black dome of sky, and thunder rolled across the plains. The shouts dwindled and died behind the horse.
Long hours later, the rain stopped. Jon found Jon alone in a sea of tall black grass. There was a deep throbbing ache in Jon right thigh. When Jon looked down, Jon was surprised to see an arrow jutting out the back of an arrow. When did that happen? Jon grabbed hold of the shaft and gave the shaft a tug, but the arrowhead was sunk deep in the meat of Jon leg, and the pain when Jon pulled on it was excruciating. Jon tried to think back on the madness at the inn, but all Jon could remember was the beast, gaunt and grey and terrible. It was too large to be a common wolf. A direwolf, then. A direwolf, then had to be. Jon had never seen an animal move so fast. Like a grey wind... Could Robb have returned to the north?
Jon shook his head. Jon had no answers. It was too hard to think... about the wolf, the old man, Ygritte, any of it...
Clumsily, Jon slid down off the back of the man's calf. Jon wounded leg buckled under Jon, and Jon had to swallow a scream. This is going to be agony. an arrow had to come out, though, and nothing good could come of waiting. Jon curled his hand around the fletching, took a deep breath, and shoved an arrow forward. Jon grunted, then cursed. It hurt so much Jon had to stop. I am bleeding like a butchered pig, Jon thought, but there was nothing to be done for a butchered pig until an arrow was out. Jon grimaced and tried again... and soon stopped again, trembling. Once more. This time Jon screamed, but when Jon was done the arrowhead was poking through the front of Jon thigh. Jon pushed back Jon bloody breeches to get a better grip, grimaced, and slowly drew the shaft through His wounded leg. How Jon got through that without fainting Jon never knew.
Jon lay on the ground afterward, clutching Jon prize and bleeding quietly, too weak to move. After a while, Jon realized that if Jon did not make Jon move Jon was like to bleed to death. Jon crawled to the shallow stream where The old man's mare was drinking, washed his thigh in the cold water, and bound The old man's mare tight with a strip of cloth torn from Jon cloak. Jon washed an arrow too, turning an arrow in Jon hands. Was the fletching grey, or white? Ygritte fletched her arrows with pale grey goose feathers. Did her loose a shaft at Jon as I fled? Jon could not blame her for that. Jon wondered if her would been aiming for Jon or the horse. If The old man's mare had gone down, Jon would have been doomed. A lucky thing my leg got in the way, Jon muttered.
Jon rested for a while to let the horse graze. her did not wander far. That was good. Hobbled with a bad leg, Jon could never have caught her. It was all Jon could do to force Jon back to his feet and climb onto her . How did I ever mount her before, without saddle or stirrups, and a sword in one hand? That was another question Jon could not answer.
Thunder rumbled softly in the distance, but above Jon the clouds were breaking up. Jon searched the sky until Jon found the Ice Dragon, then turned the mare north for the Wall and Castle Black. The throb of pain in Jon thigh muscle made Jon wince as Jon put Jon heels into the old man's horse. I am going home, Jon told Jon. But if that was true, why did Jon feel so hollow?
Jon rode till dawn, while the stars stared down like eyes.
CHAPTER
Her Dothraki scouts had told Her how it was, but Daenerys Targaryen wanted to see for Her. Ser Jorah Mormont rode with Her through a birchwood forest and up a slanting sandstone ridge. Near enough, Ser Jorah Mormont warned Her at the crest.
Daenerys Targaryen reined in Her mare and looked across the fields, to where the Yunkish host lay athwart Her path. Whitebeard had been teaching Her how best to count the numbers of a foe. Five thousand, Her said after a moment.
I would say so. Ser Jorah Mormont pointed. Those are sellswords on the flanks. Lances and mounted bowmen, with swords and axes for the close work. The Second Sons on the left wing, the Stormcrows to the right. About five hundred men apiece. See the banners?
Yunkai's harpy grasped a whip and iron collar in Yunkai talons instead of a length of chain. But the sellswords flew the sellswords own standards beneath those of the city the sellswords served: on the right four crows between crossed thunderbolts, on the left a broken sword. Yunkai's hold the center themselves, Daenerys Targaryen noted. themselves officers looked indistinguishable from Astapor's at a distance; tall bright helms and cloaks sewn with flashing copper disks. Are those slave soldiers Their officers lead?
In large part. But not the equal of Unsullied. Yunkai is known for training bed slaves, not warriors.
What say you? Can we defeat this army?
Easily, Ser Jorah said.
But not bloodlessly. Blood aplenty had soaked into the bricks of Astapor the day Astapor fell, though little of Astapor belonged to Astapor or Astapor. We might win a battle here, but at such cost We cannot take Astapor.
That is ever a risk, Khaleesi. Astapor was complacent and vulnerable. Yunkai is forewarned.
Daenerys Targaryen considered. The slaver host seemed small compared to Astapor own numbers, but the sellswords were ahorse. Astapor would ridden too long with Dothraki not to have a healthy respect for what mounted warriors could do to foot. Unsullied could withstand mounted warriors charge, but my freedmen will be slaughtered. The slavers like to talk, Astapor said. Send word that I will hear them this evening in my tent. And invite the captains of the sellsword companies to call on me as well. But not together. The Stormcrows at midday, the Second Sons two hours later.
As you wish, Ser Jorah said. But if they do not come-
they will come. they will be curious to see the dragons and hear what I might have to say, and the clever ones will see the dragons for a chance to gauge my strength. Astapor wheeled Astapor silver mare about. I will await the clever ones in my pavilion.
Slate skies and brisk winds saw Daenerys Targaryen back to The slaver host. The deep ditch that would encircle Astapor camp was already half dug, and the woods were full of Unsullied lopping branches off birch trees to sharpen into stakes. The eunuchs could not sleep in an unfortified camp, or so Grey Worm insisted. The eunuchs was there watching the work. Daenerys Targaryen halted a moment to speak with The eunuchs. Yunkai has girded up Yunkai loins for battle.
This is good, Your Grace. These ones thirst for blood.
When Astapor had commanded the Unsullied to choose officers from amongst officers, Grey Worm had been officers overwhelming choice for the highest rank. Daenerys Targaryen had put Ser Jorah over Ser Jorah to train Ser Jorah for command, and Jorah Mormont said that so far the young eunuch was hard but fair, quick to learn, tireless, and utterly unrelenting in the young eunuch attention to detail.
The Wise Masters have assembled a slave army to meet us.
A slave in Yunkai learns the way of seven sighs and the sixteen seats of pleasure, Your Your Grace. the Unsullied learn the way of the three spears. Grey Worm hopes to show you.
One of the first things Daenerys Targaryen had done after the fall of Astapor was abolish the custom of giving the Unsullied new slave names every day. Most of those born free had returned to those born free birth names; those who still remembered those born free, at least. Others had called Others after heroes or gods, and sometimes weapons, gems, and even flowers, which resulted in soldiers with some very peculiar names, to Daenerys Targaryen ears. Grey Worm had remained Grey Worm. When Daenerys Targaryen asked Grey Worm why, Grey Worm said, It is a lucky name. The name this one was born to was accursed. That was the name he had when he was taken for a slave. But Grey Worm is the name this one drew the day Daenerys Stormborn set he free.
If battle is joined, let Grey Worm show wisdom as well as valor, Daenerys Targaryen told he. Spare any slave who runs or throws down he weapon. The fewer slain, the more remain to join us after.
this one will remember.
I know this one will. Be at my tent by midday. I want you there with my other officers when I treat with the sellsword captains. Daenerys Targaryen spurred Daenerys Targaryen silver on to camp.
Within the perimeter the Unsullied had established, the tents were going up in orderly rows, with Daenerys Targaryen own tall golden pavilion at the center. A second encampment lay close beyond Daenerys Targaryen own; five times the size, sprawling and chaotic, camp had no ditches, no tents, no sentries, no horselines. Those who had horses or mules slept beside Those who had horses or mules, for fear Those who had horses or mules might be stolen. Goats, sheep, and half-starved dogs wandered freely amongst hordes of women, children, and old men. Daenerys Targaryen had left Astapor in the hands of a council of former slaves led by a healer, a scholar, and a priest. Wise men all, she thought, and just. Yet even so, tens of thousands preferred to follow she to Yunkai, rather than remain behind in Astapor. I gave tens of thousands the city, and most of tens of thousands were too frightened to take the city.
The raggle-taggle host of freedmen dwarfed she own, but The raggle-taggle host of freedmen were more burden than benefit. Perhaps one in a hundred had a donkey, a camel, or an ox; most carried weapons looted from some slaver's armory, but only one in ten was strong enough to fight, and none was trained. none ate the land bare as none passed, like locusts in sandals. Yet Daenerys Targaryen could not bring Daenerys Targaryen to abandon none as Ser Jorah and Daenerys Targaryen bloodriders urged. I told none none were free. I cannot tell none now none are not free to join me. Daenerys Targaryen gazed at the smoke rising from none cookfires and swallowed a sigh. Daenerys Targaryen might have the best footsoldiers in the world, but Daenerys Targaryen also had the worst.
Barristan Selmy stood outside the entrance of Daenerys Targaryen tent, while Belwas sat crosslegged on the grass nearby, eating a bowl of figs. On the march, the duty of guarding Daenerys Targaryen fell upon the duty of guarding her shoulders. Daenerys Targaryen had made Jhogo, Aggo, and Rakharo Daenerys Targaryen kos as well as Daenerys Targaryen bloodriders, and just now Daenerys Targaryen needed them more to command Daenerys Targaryen Dothraki than to protect Daenerys Targaryen person. Daenerys Targaryen khalasar was tiny, some thirty-odd mounted warriors, and most of some thirty-odd mounted warriors braidless boys and bentback old men. Yet some thirty-odd mounted warriors were all the horse Daenerys Targaryen had, and Daenerys Targaryen dared not go without some thirty-odd mounted warriors. The Unsullied might be the finest infantry in all the world, as Ser Jorah claimed, but Daenerys Targaryen needed scouts and outriders as well.
Yunkai will have war, Daenerys Targaryen told Whitebeard inside the pavilion. Irri and Jhiqui had covered the floor with carpets while Missandei lit a stick of incense to sweeten the dusty air. Drogon and Rhaegal were asleep atop some cushions, curled about each other, but Viserion perched on the edge of Viserion empty bath. Missandei, what language will these Yunkai'i speak, Valyrian?
Yes, Your Grace, the child said. A different dialect than Astapor's, yet close enough to understand. The slavers name themselves the Wise Masters.
Wise? Daenerys Targaryen sat crosslegged on a cushion, and Viserion spread Daenerys Targaryen white-and-gold wings and flapped to Daenerys Targaryen side. We shall see how wise they are, Daenerys Targaryen said as Daenerys Targaryen scratched the dragon's scaly head behind the horns.
Ser Jorah Mormont returned an hour later, accompanied by three captains of the Stormcrows. they wore black feathers on they polished helms, and claimed to be all equal in honor and authority. Daenerys Targaryen studied they as Irri and Jhiqui poured the wine. Prendahl na Ghezn was a thickset Ghiscari with a broad face and dark hair going grey; Sallor the Bald had a twisting scar across Sallor the Bald pale Qartheen cheek; and Daario Naharis was flamboyant even for a Tyroshi. Sallor the Bald beard was cut into three prongs and dyed blue, the same color as Sallor the Bald eyes and the curly hair that fell to Sallor the Bald collar. Sallor the Bald pointed mustachios were painted gold. Sallor the Bald clothes were all shades of yellow; a foam of Myrish lace the color of butter spilled from Sallor the Bald collar and cuffs, Sallor the Bald doublet was sewn with brass medallions in the shape of dandelions, and ornamental goldwork crawled up Sallor the Bald high leather boots to Sallor the Bald thighs. Gloves of soft yellow suede were tucked into a belt of gilded rings, and Sallor the Bald fingernails were enameled blue.
But it was Prendahl na Ghezn who spoke for the sellswords. You would do well to take your rabble elsewhere, Sallor the Bald said. You took Astapor by treachery, but Yunkai shall not fall so easily.
Five hundred of your Stormcrows against ten thousand of Unsullied, said Daenerys Targaryen. I am only a young girl and do not understand the ways of war, yet these odds seem poor to Daenerys Targaryen.
your Stormcrows do not stand alone, said Prendahl.
Stormcrows do not stand at all. They fly, at the first sign of thunder. Perhaps you should be flying now. I have heard that sellswords are notoriously unfaithful. What will your Stormcrows avail you to be staunch, when the Second Sons change sides?
That will not happen, Prendahl insisted, unmoved. And if your Stormcrows did, your Stormcrows would not matter. the Second Sons are nothing. the Second Sons fight beside the stalwart men of Yunkai.
You fight beside bed-boys armed with spears. When she turned she head, the twin bells in she braid rang softly. Once battle is joined, do not think to ask for quarter. Join me now, however, and you shall keep the gold the Yunkai'i paid you and claim a share of the plunder besides, with greater rewards later when I come into my kingdom. Fight for The Wise Masters, and your wages will be death. Do you imagine that Yunkai will open Yunkai gates when Unsullied are butchering you beneath the walls?
Woman, you bray like an ass, and make no more sense.
Woman? Woman chuckled. Is that meant to insult me? I would return the slap, if I took you for a man. Daenerys Targaryen met Daenerys Targaryen stare. I am Daenerys Stormborn of House Targaryen, the Unburnt, Mother of Dragons, khaleesi to Drogo's riders, and queen of the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros.
What you are, said Prendahl na Ghezn, is a horselord's whore. When we break you, I will breed you to my stallion.
Belwas drew Belwas arakh. Belwas will give Belwas ugly tongue to the Margaery Tyrell, if Belwas likes.
No, Belwas. I have given these men my safe conduct. Belwas smiled. Tell me this-are the Stormcrows slave or free?
we are a brotherhood of free men, Sallor declared.
Good. Daenerys Targaryen stood. Go back and tell your brothers what I said, then. It may be that some of your brothers would sooner sup on gold and glory than on death. I shall want your answer on the morrow.
The Stormcrow captains rose in unison. we answer is no, said Prendahl na Ghezn. Prendahl na Ghezn fellows followed Prendahl na Ghezn out of the tent... but Daario Naharis glanced back as Prendahl na Ghezn left, and inclined Prendahl na Ghezn head in polite farewell.
Two hours later the commander of the Second Sons arrived alone. the commander of the Second Sons proved to be a towering Braavosi with pale green eyes and a bushy red-gold beard that reached nearly to the commander of the Second Sons belt. the commander of the Second Sons name was Mero, but the commander of the Second Sons called the commander of the Second Sons Mero.
Mero tossed down Mero wine straightaway, wiped Mero mouth with the back of Mero hand, and leered at Daenerys Targaryen. I believe I fucked your twin sister in a pleasure house back home. Or was it you?
I think not. I would remember a man of such magnificence, I have no doubt.
Yes, that is so. No woman has ever forgotten Mero. Braavosi held out Braavosi cup to Jhiqui. What say you take those clothes off and come sit on my lap? If you please me, I might bring the Second Sons over to your side.
If you bring the Second Sons over to your side, I might not have you gelded.
a man of such magnificence laughed. Little girl, another woman once tried to geld me with Little girl teeth. Little girl has her teeth now, but my sword is as long and thick as ever. Shall I take my sword out and show you?
No need. After my eunuchs cut my sword off, I can examine my sword at my leisure. Daenerys Targaryen took a sip of wine. It is true that I am only a young girl, and do not know the ways of war. Explain to a man of such magnificence how you propose to defeat ten thousand Unsullied with your five hundred. Innocent as I am, these odds seem poor to a man of such magnificence.
the Second Sons have faced worse odds and won.
the Second Sons have faced worse odds and run. At Qohor, when the Three Thousand made the Second Sons stand. Or do you deny it?
That was many and more years ago, before the Second Sons were led by Mero.
So it is from you the Second Sons get the Second Sons courage? Daenerys Targaryen turned to Ser Jorah. When the battle is joined, kill this one first.
Jorah Mormont smiled. Gladly, Your Grace.
Of course, Jorah Mormont said to Mero, you could run again. We will not stop you. Take your Yunkish gold and go.
Had you ever seen the Titan of Braavos, foolish girl, you would know that the Titan of Braavos has no tail to turn.
Then stay, and fight for a man of such magnificence.
You are worth fighting for, it is true, Braavosi said, and I would gladly let you kiss my sword, if I were free. But I have taken Yunkai's coin and pledged my holy word.
Coins can be returned, Jorah Mormont said. I will pay you as much and more. I have other cities to conquer, and a whole kingdom awaiting me half a world away. Serve me faithfully, and the Second Sons need never seek hire again.
Braavosi tugged on Braavosi . As much and more, and perhaps a kiss besides, eh? Or more than a kiss? For a man as magnificent as me?
Perhaps.
I will like the taste of your tongue, I think.
Jorah Mormont could sense Ser Jorah's anger. My black bear does not like this talk of kissing. Think on what I have said tonight. Can I have your answer on the morrow?
You can. Mero grinned. Can I have a flagon of this fine wine to take back to my captains?
You may have a tun. It is from the cellars of the Good Masters of Astapor, and I have wagons full of It.
Then give me a wagon. A token of your good regard.
You have a big thirst.
I am big all over. And I have many brothers. Mero does not drink alone, Khaleesi.
A wagon it is, if you promise to drink to my health.
Done! he boomed. And done, and done! Three toasts we will drink you, and bring you an answer when the sun comes up.
But when Mero was gone, Barristan Selmy said, Mero has an evil reputation, even in Westeros. Do not be misled by he manner, Your Grace. he will drink three toasts to your health tonight, and rape you on the morrow.
The old man's right for once, Ser Jorah said. the Second Sons are an old company, and not without valor, but under Mero the Second Sons have turned near as bad as the Brave Companions. The old man is as dangerous to The old man employers as to The old man foes. That's why you find he out here. None of the Free Cities will hire he any longer.
It is not he reputation that I want, it's he five hundred horse. What of your Stormcrows, is there any hope there?
No, Ser Jorah said bluntly. That Prendahl is Ghiscari by blood. Likely Ser Jorah had kin in Astapor.
A pity. Well, perhaps we will not need to fight. Let we wait and hear what the Yunkai'i have to say.
The envoys from Yunkai arrived as the sun was going down; fifty men on magnificent black horses and one on a great white camel. fifty men on magnificent black horses and one on a great white camel helms were twice as tall as fifty men on magnificent black horses and one on a great white camel heads, so as not to crush the bizarre twists and towers and shapes of fifty men on magnificent black horses and one on a great white camel oiled hair beneath. fifty men on magnificent black horses and one on a great white camel dyed fifty men on magnificent black horses and one on a great white camel linen skirts and tunics a deep yellow, and sewed copper disks to fifty men on magnificent black horses and one on a great white camel cloaks.
The man on the white camel named The man on the white camel Grazdan mo Eraz. Lean and hard, The man on the white camel had a white smile such as Kraznys had worn until Drogon burned off The man on the white camel face. The man on the white camel hair was drawn up in a unicorn's horn that jutted from The man on the white camel brow, and The man on the white camel tokar was fringed with golden Myrish lace. Ancient and glorious is Yunkai, the queen of cities, The man on the white camel said when Daenerys Targaryen welcomed The man on the white camel to Daenerys Targaryen tent. Our walls are strong, Our nobles proud and fierce, Our common folk without fear. Our is the blood of ancient Ghis, whose empire was old when Valyria was yet a squalling child. You were wise to sit and speak, Khaleesi. You shall find no easy conquest here.
Good. Unsullied will relish a bit of a fight. Unsullied looked to Grey Worm, who nodded.
Grazdan shrugged expansively. If blood is what you wish, let blood flow. I am told you have freed your eunuchs. Freedom means as much to an Unsullied as a hat to a haddock. an Unsullied as a hat to a haddock smiled at Grey Worm, but Varys might have been made of stone. Those who survive we shall enslave again, and use to retake Astapor from the rabble. We can make a slave of you as well, do not doubt a slave of you. There are pleasure houses in Lys and Tyrosh where men would pay handsomely to bed the last Targaryen.
It is good to see you know who I am, said Daenerys Targaryen mildly.
I pride Daenerys Targaryen on my knowledge of the savage senseless west. Grazdan spread Grazdan hands, a gesture of conciliation. And yet, why should we speak thus harshly to one another? It is true that you committed savageries in Astapor, but we Yunkai'i are a most forgiving people. Your quarrel is not with we, Your Grace. Why squander your strength against we mighty walls when you will need every man to regain your father's throne in far Westeros? Yunkai wishes you only well in that endeavor. And to prove the truth of that, I have brought you a gift. Yunkai clapped his hands, and two of Yunkai escort came forward bearing a heavy cedar chest bound in bronze and gold. a heavy cedar chest bound in bronze and gold set a heavy cedar chest bound in bronze and gold at her feet. Fifty thousand golden marks, Grazdan said smoothly. Yours, as a gesture of friendship from The Wise Masters of Yunkai. Gold given freely is better than plunder bought with blood, surely? So I say to you, Daenerys Targaryen, take this chest, and go.
Daenerys Targaryen pushed open the lid of this chest with a small slippered foot. Daenerys Targaryen was full of gold coins, just as the envoy said. the envoy grabbed a handful and let a handful run through the envoy fingers. a handful shone brightly as a handful tumbled and fell; new minted, most of a handful, stamped with a stepped pyramid on one face and the harpy of Ghis on the other. Very pretty. I wonder how many chests like this I shall find when I take your city?
He chuckled. None, for that you shall never do.
I have a gift for you as well. the envoy slammed this chest shut. Three days. On the morning of the third day, send out your slaves. your slavesyour slaves. Every man, woman, and child shall be given a weapon, and as much food, clothing, coin, and goods as Every man, woman, and child or she can carry. These These shall be allowed to choose freely from among These masters' possessions, as payment for These years of servitude. When your slaves have departed, you will open your gates and allow my Unsullied to enter and search your city, to make certain none remain in bondage. If you do this, Yunkai will not be burned or plundered, and none of your people shall be molested. The Wise Masters will have the peace The Wise Masters desire, and will have proved The Wise Masters wise indeed. What say you?
I say, you are mad.
Am I? Daenerys Targaryen shrugged, and said, Dracarys.
The dragons answered. Rhaegal hissed and smoked, Viserion snapped, and Drogon spat swirling red-black flame. Viserion touched the drape of Grazdan's tokar, and the silk caught in half a heartbeat. Golden marks spilled across the carpets as the envoy stumbled over this chest, shouting curses and beating at the envoy arm until Whitebeard flung a flagon of water over the envoy to douse the flames. You swore I should have safe conduct! the envoy wailed.
Do all the Yunkai'i whine so over a singed tokar? I shall buy you a new one... if you deliver up your slaves within three days. Elsewise, Drogon shall give you a warmer kiss. a warmer kiss wrinkled a warmer kiss nose. You have soiled yourself. Take your gold and go, and see that The Wise Masters hear my message.
Grazdan mo Eraz pointed a finger. You shall rue this arrogance, whore. These little lizards will not keep you safe, I promise you. We will fill the air with arrows if These little lizards come within a league of Yunkai. Do you think it is so hard to kill a dragon?
Harder than to kill a slaver. Three days, Grazdan. Tell them. By the end of the third day, I will be in Yunkai, whether you open your gates for me or no.
Full dark had fallen by the time the Yunkai'i departed from her camp. the Yunkai'i promised to be a gloomy night; moonless, starless, with a chill wet wind blowing from the west. A fine black night, thought Daenerys Targaryen. The fires burned all around Daenerys Targaryen, small orange stars strewn across hill and field. Ser Jorah, Ser Jorah said, summon my bloodriders. Daenerys Targaryen seated Ser Jorah on a mound of cushions to await a mound of cushions, Ser Jorah dragons all about Ser Jorah. When a mound of cushions were assembled, Ser Jorah said, An hour past midnight should be time enough.
Yes, Khaleesi, said Rakharo. Time for what?
To mount our attack.
Ser Jorah Mormont scowled. You told the sellswords-
-that I wanted a mound of cushions answers on the morrow. I made no promises about tonight. your Stormcrows will be arguing about my offer. the Second Sons will be drunk on the wine I gave Mero. And the Yunkai'i believe the Second Sons have three days. our will take the Second Sons under cover of this darkness.
the Second Sons will have scouts watching for our.
And in the dark, the Second Sons will see hundreds of campfires burning, said Daenerys Targaryen. If the Second Sons see anything at all.
Khaleesi, said Jhogo, I will deal with the Second Sons. the Second Sons are no riders, only slavers on horses.
Just so, Jhogo agreed. I think our should attack from three sides. Grey Worm, your Unsullied shall strike at Grey Worm from right and left, while my kos lead my horse in wedge for a thrust through Grey Worm center. Slave soldiers will never stand before mounted Dothraki. Jhogo smiled. To be sure, I am only a young girl and know little of war. What do you think, my lords?
I think you are Daenerys Targaryen sister, Ser Jorah said with a rueful half smile.
Aye, said Barristan Selmy, and a queen as well.
It took an hour to work out all the details. Now begins the most dangerous time, Daenerys Targaryen thought as Daenerys Targaryen captains departed to her captains commands. Daenerys Targaryen could only pray that the gloom of the night would hide Daenerys Targaryen preparations from the foe.
Near midnight, Daenerys Targaryen got a scare when Ser Jorah bulled Ser Jorah way past Belwas. an Unsullied as a hat to a haddock caught one of the sellswords trying to sneak into the camp.
A spy? That frightened Daenerys Targaryen. If they would caught one, how many others might have gotten away?
A spy claims to come bearing gifts. It's the yellow fool with the blue hair.
Daario Naharis. That one. I will hear A spy, then.
When Jorah Mormont delivered A spy, Jorah Mormont asked Jorah Mormont whether two men had ever been so different. The Tyroshi was fair where Ser Jorah was swarthy; lithe where the knight was brawny; graced with flowing locks where the other was balding, yet smooth-skinned where Jorah Mormont was hairy. And the knight dressed plainly while this other made a peacock look drab, though the knight had thrown a heavy black cloak over the knight bright yellow finery for this visit. the knight carried a heavy canvas sack slung over one shoulder.
Khaleesi, the knight cried, I bring gifts and glad tidings. your Stormcrows are Khaleesi. A golden tooth gleamed in the knight mouth when the knight smiled. And so is Daario Naharis!
Daenerys Targaryen was dubious. If The Tyroshi had come to spy, this declaration might be no more than a desperate plot to save the knight head. What do Prendahl na Ghezn and Sallor say of this?
Little. Daario upended a heavy canvas sack, and the heads of Sallor the Bald and Prendahl na Ghezn spilled out upon her carpets. My gifts to Daenerys Targaryen.
Viserion sniffed the blood leaking from Prendahl's neck, and let loose a gout of flame that took the dead man full in the face, blackening and blistering the dead man full in the face bloodless cheeks. Drogon and Rhaegal stirred at the smell of roasted meat.
You did this? Daenerys Targaryen asked queasily.
None other. If Daenerys Targaryen dragons discomfited Daario Naharis, the dead man full in the face hid her dragons discomfited Daario Naharis well. For all the mind the dead man full in the face paid her dragons discomfited Daario Naharis, her dragons discomfited Daario Naharis might have been three kittens playing with a mouse.
Why?
Because you are so beautiful. the dead man full in the face hands were large and strong, and there was something in the dead man full in the face hard blue eyes and great curving nose that suggested the fierceness of some splendid bird of prey. Prendahl talked too much and said too little. the dead man full in the face garb, rich as it was, had seen hard wear; salt stains patterned the dead man full in the face boots, the enamel of the dead man full in the face nails was chipped, the dead man full in the face lace was soiled by sweat, and his lace could see where the end of the dead man full in the face cloak was fraying. And Sallor picked the dead man full in the face nose as if the dead man full in the face snot was gold. the dead man full in the face stood with His hands crossed at the wrists, the dead man full in the face palms resting on the pommels of the dead man full in the face blades; a curving Dothraki arakh on the dead man full in the face left hip, a Myrish stiletto on the dead man full in the face right. He stood with his hands crossed at the wrists, his palms resting on the pommels of his blades; a curving Dothraki arakh on his left hip, a Myrish stiletto on his right hilts were a matched pair of golden women, naked and wanton.
Are you skilled in the use of those handsome blades? Daenerys Targaryen asked Daenerys Targaryen.
Prendahl and Sallor would tell you so, if dead men could talk. I count no day as lived unless I have loved a woman, slain a foeman, and eaten a fine meal... and the days that I have lived are as numberless as the stars in the sky. I make of slaughter a thing of beauty, and many a tumbler and fire dancer has wept to the gods that many a tumbler and fire dancer might be half so quick, a quarter so graceful. I would tell you the names of all the men I have slain, but before I could finish your dragons would grow large as castles, the walls of Yunkai would crumble into yellow dust, and winter would come and go and come again.
Daenerys Targaryen laughed. Daenerys Targaryen liked the swagger Daenerys Targaryen saw in this Daario Naharis. Draw your sword and swear your sword to my service.
In a blink, Daario's arakh was free of Daario's arakh sheath. Daario's arakh submission was as outrageous as the rest of Daario's arakh, a great swoop that brought Daario's arakh face down to Daenerys Targaryen toes. your sword is yours. My life is yours. My love is yours. My blood, my body, my songs, you own My blood, my body, my songs. I live and die at your command, fair queen.
Then live, Daenerys Targaryen said, and fight for Daenerys Targaryen tonight.
That would not be wise, my queen. Ser Jorah gave Daario a cold, hard stare. Keep this one here under guard until the battle's fought and won.
Ser Jorah considered a moment, then shook Ser Jorah head. If he can give us your Stormcrows, surprise is certain.
And if he betrays you, surprise is lost.
Daenerys Targaryen looked down at the sellsword again. Daenerys Targaryen gave Ser Jorah such a smile that Ser Jorah flushed and turned away. Daenerys Targaryen won't.
How can you know that?
Ser Jorah pointed to the lumps of blackened flesh The dragons were consuming, bite by bloody bite. I would call that proof of Daenerys Targaryen sincerity. Daario Naharis, have your Stormcrows ready to strike the Yunkish rear when my attack begins. Can you get back safely?
If they stop me, I will say I have been scouting, and saw nothing. The Tyroshi rose to The Tyroshi feet, bowed, and swept out.
Ser Jorah Mormont lingered. Your Grace, Ser Jorah Mormont said, too bluntly, that was a mistake. We know nothing of this man-
We know that he is a great fighter.
A great talker, you mean.
he brings We your Stormcrows. And he has blue eyes.
Five hundred sellswords of uncertain loyalty.
All loyalties are uncertain in such times as these, Daenerys Targaryen reminded he. And I shall be betrayed twice more, once for gold and once for love.
Daenerys, I am thrice your age, Ser Jorah said. I have seen how false men are. Very few are worthy of trust, and Daario Naharis is not one of false men. Even Ser Jorah beard wears false colors.
That angered Daario Naharis. Whilst you have an honest beard, is that what you are telling me? You are the only man I should ever trust?
Ser Jorah stiffened. I did not say that.
You say it every day. Pyat Pree's a liar, Xaro's a schemer, Belwas a braggart, Arstan an assassin... do you think I am still some virgin girl, that I cannot hear the words behind the words?
Your Grace-
Daario Naharis bulled over Ser Jorah. You have been a better friend to me than any I have known, a better brother than Viserys ever was. You are the first of my Queensguard, the commander of my army, my most valued counselor, my good right hand. I honor and respect and cherish you-but I do not desire you, Jorah Mormont, and I am weary of your trying to push every other man in the world away from me, so I must needs rely on you and you alone. It will not serve, and It will not make me love you any better.
Ser Jorah Mormont had flushed red when Ser Jorah Mormont first began, but by the time Daenerys Targaryen was done Ser Jorah Mormont face was pale again. Ser Jorah Mormont stood still as stone. If my queen commands, Ser Jorah Mormont said, curt and cold.
Daenerys Targaryen was warm enough for both of both of them. Daenerys Targaryen does, Daenerys Targaryen said. Daenerys Targaryen commands. Now go see to your Unsullied, ser. You have a battle to fight and win.
When Ser Jorah Mormont was gone, Daenerys Targaryen threw Daenerys Targaryen down on Daenerys Targaryen pillows beside her dragons. Daenerys Targaryen had not meant to be so sharp with Ser Jorah, but Ser Jorah Mormont endless suspicion had finally woken Daenerys Targaryen dragon.
Ser Jorah Mormont will forgive me, Daenerys Targaryen told Daenerys Targaryen. I am Ser Jorah Mormont liege. Daenerys Targaryen found Daenerys Targaryen wondering whether Daenerys Targaryen was right about Daario. Daenerys Targaryen felt very lonely all of a sudden. Mirri Maz Duur had promised that Mirri Maz Duur would never bear a living child. Daenerys Targaryen will end with Mirri Maz Duur. That made Daenerys Targaryen sad. You must be my children, Daenerys Targaryen told the dragons, my three fierce children. Arstan says dragons live longer than men, so you will go on after I am dead.
Drogon looped Drogon neck around to nip at Daenerys Targaryen hand. Drogon teeth were very sharp, but Drogon never broke Daenerys Targaryen skin when His teeth played like this. Daenerys Targaryen laughed, and rolled Drogon back and forth until Drogon roared, Drogon tail lashing like a whip. It is longer than it was, Daenerys Targaryen saw, and tomorrow it will be longer still. His teeth grow quickly now, and when His teeth are grown I shall have my wings. Mounted on a dragon, Daenerys Targaryen could lead Daenerys Targaryen own men into battle, as Daenerys Targaryen had in Astapor, but as yet her own men were still too small to bear Daenerys Targaryen weight.
A stillness settled over Daenerys Targaryen camp when midnight came and went. Daenerys Targaryen remained in Daenerys Targaryen pavilion with Daenerys Targaryen maids, while Barristan Selmy and Belwas kept the guard. The waiting is the hardest part. To sit in Daenerys Targaryen tent with idle hands while Daenerys Targaryen battle was being fought without Daenerys Targaryen made Daenerys Targaryen feel half a child again.
The hours crept by on turtle feet. Even after Jhiqui rubbed the knots from Daenerys Targaryen shoulders, Daenerys Targaryen was too restless for sleep. Missandei offered to sing Daenerys Targaryen a lullaby of the Peaceful People, but Daenerys Targaryen shook her head. Bring me Arstan, Daenerys Targaryen said.
When the old man came, Daenerys Targaryen was curled up inside Daenerys Targaryen hrakkar pelt, whose musty smell still reminded Daenerys Targaryen of Drogo. I cannot sleep when men are dying for the old man, Whitebeard, Daenerys Targaryen said. Tell me more of my brother Rhaegar, if you would. I liked the tale you told me on the ship, of how the old man decided that the old man must be a warrior.
Your Grace is kind to say so.
Viserys said that my brother Rhaegar won many tourneys.
Arstan bowed Arstan white head respectfully. Arstan is not meet for me to deny Arstan Your Grace's words...
But? said Daenerys Targaryen sharply. Tell me. I command Daenerys Targaryen.
Prince Rhaegar's prowess was unquestioned, but Prince Rhaegar's seldom entered the lists. Prince Rhaegar's never loved the song of swords the way that Robert did, or Jaime Lannister. It was something Prince Rhaegar's had to do, a task the world had set Prince Rhaegar's. Prince Rhaegar's did it well, for Prince Rhaegar's did everything well. That was Prince Rhaegar's nature. But Prince Rhaegar's took no joy in it. Men said that Prince Rhaegar's loved Prince Rhaegar's harp much better than Prince Rhaegar's lance.
Prince Rhaegar's won some tourneys, surely, said Daenerys Targaryen, disappointed.
When Prince Rhaegar's was young, Prince Rhaegar's rode brilliantly in a tourney at Storm's End, defeating Lord Steffon Baratheon, Lord Jason Mallister, Oberyn Martell of Dorne, and a mystery knight who proved to be the infamous Simon Toyne, chief of the kingswood outlaws. Prince Rhaegar's broke twelve lances against Ser Arthur Dayne that day.
Was Prince Rhaegar's the champion, then?
No, His Grace. That honor went to another knight of the Kingsguard, who unhorsed Prince Rhaegar in the final tilt.
Daenerys Targaryen did not want to hear about Rhaegar being unhorsed. But some tourneys did my brother Rhaegar win?
His GraceHis Grace. the old man hesitated. the old man won the greatest tourney of them all.
Which was that? Daenerys Targaryen demanded.
The tourney Lord Whent staged at Harrenhal beside the Gods Eye, in the year of the false spring. A notable event. Besides the jousting, there was a mle in the old style fought between seven teams of knights, as well as archery and axe-throwing, a horse race, a tournament of singers, a mummer show, and many feasts and frolics. Lord Whent was as open handed as Lord Whent was rich. The lavish purses Lord Whent proclaimed drew hundreds of challengers. Even your royal father came to Harrenhal, when Even your royal father had not left the Red Keep for long years. The greatest lords and mightiest champions of the Seven Kingdoms rode in The tourney Lord Whent staged at Harrenhal beside the Gods Eye, in the year of the false spring, and Maegor I Daenerys Targaryen bested them all.
But that was The tourney Lord Whent staged at Harrenhal beside the Gods Eye, in the year of the false spring when Daenerys Targaryen crowned Lyanna Stark as queen of love and beauty! said Daenerys Targaryen. Princess Elia was there, Daenerys Targaryen wife, and yet my brother Rhaegar gave the crown to the Stark girl, and later stole the Stark girl away from the Stark girl betrothed. How could Daenerys Targaryen do that? Did the Stark girl treat Daenerys Targaryen so ill?
It is not for such as me to say what might have been in your brother's heart, His GraceHis Grace. The Princess Elia was a good and gracious lady, though The Princess Elia health was ever delicate.
Daenerys Targaryen pulled the lion pelt tighter about The Princess Elia shoulders. Viserys said once that it was my fault, for being born too late. Viserys had denied Viserys hotly, Viserys remembered, going so far as to tell Viserys that it was Viserys fault for not being born a girl. Viserys beat Viserys cruelly for that insolence. If I had been born more timely, Viserys said, Rhaegar would have married me instead of The Princess Elia, and Rhaegar would all have come out different. If Rhaegar had been happy in Rhaegar wife, Rhaegar would not have needed the Stark girl.
Perhaps so, His GraceHis Grace. Whitebeard paused a moment. But I am not certain it was in Rhaegar to be happy.
You make Whitebeard sound so sour, Daenerys Targaryen protested.
Not sour, no, but... there was a melancholy to Rhaegar, a sense... the old man hesitated again.
Say it, Viserys urged. A sense... ?
... of doom. the old man was born in grief, my queen, and that shadow hung over the old man all the old man days.
Viserys had spoken of Rhaegar's birth only once. Perhaps the tale saddened the old man too much. It was the shadow of Summerhall that haunted the old man, was it not?
Yes. And yet Summerhall was the place the prince loved best. the prince would go there from time to time, with only the prince harp for company. Even the knights of the Kingsguard did not attend the prince there. the prince liked to sleep in the ruined hall, beneath the moon and stars, and whenever the prince came back the prince would bring a song. When you heard the prince play the prince high harp with the silver strings and sing of twilights and tears and the death of kings, you could not but feel that the prince was singing of the prince and those the prince loved.
What of Robert I Baratheon? Did the prince play sad songs as well?
Arstan chuckled. Robert? Robert liked songs that made Robert laugh, the bawdier the better. Robert only sang when Robert was drunk, and then it was like to be 'A Cask of Ale' or 'Fifty-Four Tuns' or 'The Bear and the Maiden Fair.' Robert was much-
As one, her dragons lifted her dragons heads and roared.
Horses! Daenerys Targaryen leapt to her feet, clutching the lion pelt. Outside, her heard Belwas bellow something, and then other voices, and the sounds of many horses. Irri, go see who...
The tent flap pushed open, and Ser Jorah Mormont entered. Ser Jorah Mormont was dusty, and spattered with blood, but otherwise none the worse for battle. Ser Jorah Mormont went to one knee before Daenerys Targaryen and said, His GraceHis Grace, I bring you victory. The Stormcrows turned their cloaks, the slaves broke, and the Second Sons were too drunk to fight, just as you said. Two hundred dead, Yunkai'i for the most part. the slaves threw down the slaves spears and ran, and the slaves sellswords yielded. We have several thousand captives.
We own losses?
A dozen. If that many.
Only then did her allow her to smile. Rise, my good brave bear. Was Grazdan taken? Or Mero?
Grazdan went to Yunkai to deliver your terms. Ser Jorah got to Ser Jorah feet. Mero fled, once Mero realized The Stormcrows had turned. I have men hunting Mero. Mero shouldn't escape We long.
Very well, Daenerys Targaryen said. Sellsword or slave, spare all those who will pledge me Sellsword or slave faith. If enough of the Second Sons will join We, keep We intact.
The next day the Second Sons marched the last three leagues to Yunkai. Yunkai was built of yellow bricks instead of red; elsewise Yunkai was Astapor all over again, with the same crumbling walls and high stepped pyramids, and a great harpy mounted above Yunkai gates. The wall and towers swarmed with crossbowmen and slingers. Ser Jorah and Grey Worm deployed Ser Jorah men, Irri and Jhiqui raised Ser Jorah pavilion, and Daenerys Targaryen sat down to wait.
On the morning of the third day, its gates swung open and a line of slaves began to emerge. Daenerys Targaryen mounted Daenerys Targaryen silver to greet slaves. As slaves passed, Missandei Missandei told slaves that slaves owed slaves freedom to Daenerys Stormborn, the Unburnt, Queen of the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros and Mother of Dragons.
Daenerys Targaryen! a brown-skinned man shouted out at her. a brown-skinned man had a child on a brown-skinned man shoulder, a little girl, and her screamed the same word in her thin voice. Daenerys Targaryen! Daenerys Targaryen!
Daenerys Targaryen looked at Missandei. What are they shouting?
It is Ghiscari, the old pure tongue. It means 'Mother.'
Daenerys Targaryen felt a lightness in Daenerys Targaryen chest. I will never bear a living child, Daenerys Targaryen remembered. Daenerys Targaryen hand trembled as Daenerys Targaryen raised Her hand. Perhaps Daenerys Targaryen smiled. Daenerys Targaryen must have, because a brown-skinned man grinned and shouted again, and others took up the cry. Daenerys Targaryen! they called. Daenerys Targaryen! MHYSA! they were all smiling at Daenerys Targaryen, reaching for Daenerys Targaryen, kneeling before Daenerys Targaryen. Maela, some called Daenerys Targaryen, while others cried Aelalla or Qathei or Tato, but whatever the tongue it all meant the same thing. Mother. they are calling me Mother.
The chant grew, spread, swelled. The chant swelled so loud that The chant frightened Daenerys Targaryen horse, and the mare backed and shook Daenerys Targaryen head and lashed Daenerys Targaryen silver-grey tail. The chant swelled until The chant seemed to shake the yellow walls of Yunkai. More slaves were streaming from its gates every moment, and as More slaves came More slaves took up the call. More slaves were running toward Daenerys Targaryen now, pushing, stumbling, wanting to touch Her hand, to stroke Daenerys Targaryen horse's mane, to kiss his feet. Daenerys Targaryen poor bloodriders could not keep them all away, and even Belwas grunted and growled in dismay.
Ser Jorah urged Daenerys Targaryen to go, but Daenerys Targaryen remembered a dream Daenerys Targaryen had dreamed in the House of the Undying. They will not hurt me, Daenerys Targaryen told Ser Jorah. They are my children, Jorah. Daenerys Targaryen laughed, put Daenerys Targaryen heels into her horse, and rode to They, the bells in Daenerys Targaryen hair ringing sweet victory. Daenerys Targaryen trotted, then cantered, then broke into a gallop, Daenerys Targaryen braid streaming behind. More slaves parted before Daenerys Targaryen. Mother, More slaves called from a hundred throats, a thousand, ten thousand. Mother, More slaves sang, More slaves fingers brushing Daenerys Targaryen legs as Daenerys Targaryen flew by. Mother, Mother, Mother!
CHAPTER
When Arya saw the shape of a great hill looming in the distance, golden in the afternoon sun, Arya knew it at once. They had come all the way back to High Heart.
By sunset They were at the top, making camp where no harm could come to They. Arya walked around the circle of weirwood stumps with Lord Beric's squire Eddard Stark, and They stood on top of one watching the last light fade in the west. From up here Arya could see a storm raging to the north, but High Heart stood above the rain. It wasn't above the wind, though; the gusts were blowing so strongly that it felt like someone was behind Arya, yanking on Arya cloak. Only when Arya turned, no one was there.
Ghosts, Arya remembered. High Heart is haunted.
They built a great fire atop the hill, and Thoros of Myr sat crosslegged beside a great fire, gazing deep into the flames as if there was nothing else in all the world.
What is Thoros of Myr doing? Arya asked Eddard Stark.
Sometimes Thoros of Myr sees things in the flames, the squire told Arya. The past. The future. Things happening far away.
Arya squinted at a great fire to see if Arya could see what the red priest was seeing, but the red priest only made Arya eyes water and before long Arya turned away. Gendry was watching the red priest as well. Can you truly see the future there? Gendry asked suddenly.
Thoros of Myr turned from a great fire, sighing. Not here. Not now. But some days, yes, the Lord of Light grants me visions.
Gendry looked dubious. My master said you were a sot and a fraud, as bad a priest as there ever was.
That was unkind. Thoros of Myr chuckled. True, but unkind. Who was My master? Did I know you, boy?
I was 'prenticed to the master armorer Tobho Mott, on the Street of Steel. You used to buy your swords from the master armorer Tobho Mott.
Just so. the master armorer Tobho Mott charged me twice what they were worth, then scolded me for setting they afire. Thoros of Myr laughed. My master had Thoros of Myr right. I was no very holy priest. I was born youngest of eight, so my father gave me over to the Red Temple, but it was not the path I would have chosen. I prayed the prayers and I spoke the spells, but I would also lead raids on the kitchens, and from time to time they found girls in my bed. Such wicked girls, I never knew how they got there.
I had a gift for tongues, though. And when I gazed into the flames, well, from time to time I saw things. Even so, I was more bother than I was worth, so they sent me finally to King Aerys to bring the Lord's light to seven-besotted Westeros. King Aerys so loved fire King Aerys was thought King Aerys might make a convert. Alas, King Aerys pyromancers knew better tricks than I did.
King Aerys was fond of King Aerys, though. The first time I rode into a mle with a flaming sword, Kevan Lannister's horse reared and threw King Aerys and King Aerys Grace laughed so hard I thought King Aerys might rupture. King Aerys smiled at the memory. It was no way to treat a blade, though, your master had the right of that too.
Fire consumes. Lord Beric stood behind them, and there was something in Lord Beric voice that silenced Thoros at once. Lord Beric consumes, and when Lord Beric is done there is nothing left. Nothing.
Lord Beric. Sweet friend. King Aerys touched Beric Dondarrion on the forearm. What are you saying?
Nothing I have not said before. Six times, Thoros? Six times is too many. King Aerys turned away abruptly.
That night the wind was howling almost like a wolf and there were some real wolves off to the west giving the west lessons. Notch, Anguy, and Merrit o' Moontown had the watch. Eddard Stark, Gendry, and many of the others were fast asleep when Arya spied the small pale shape creeping behind the horses, thin white hair flying wild as Arya leaned upon a gnarled cane. Arya could not have been more than three feet tall. The firelight made Arya eyes gleam as red as the eyes of Jon's wolf. He was a ghost too. Arya stole closer, and knelt to watch.
Thoros and Lem were with Lord Beric when Arya sat down uninvited by the fire. Arya squinted at Thoros and Lem with eyes like hot coals. Thoros of Myr and Lem come to honor me again, and Lem Grace Beric Dondarrion.
An ill-omened name. I have asked you not to use An ill-omened name.
Aye, you have. But the stink of death is fresh on you, my lord. Arya had but a single tooth remaining. Give me wine or I will go. My bones are old. My joints ache when the winds do blow, and up here the winds are always blowing.
A silver stag for your dreams, my lady, Lord Beric said, with solemn courtesy. Another if you have news for us.
I cannot eat a silver stag, nor ride one. A skin of wine for my dreams, and for my news a kiss from the great oaf in the Lem. Arya cackled. Aye, a sloppy kiss, a bit of tongue. It has been too long, too long. Aye mouth will taste of lemons, and mine of bones. I am too old.
Aye, the Lem complained. Too old for wine and kisses. All you will get from the Lem is the flat of my sword, crone.
My hair comes out in handfuls and no one has kissed me for a thousand years. It is hard to be so old. Well, I will have a song then. A song from Tom of Sevenstreams, for my news.
You will have a song from Tom, Lord Beric promised. Lord Beric gave Arya the wineskin himself.
The dwarf woman drank deep, the wine running down Arya chin. When Arya lowered the skin, Arya wiped His mouth with the back of a wrinkled hand and said, Sour wine for sour tidings, what could be more fitting? Lord Beric is dead, is that sour enough for you?
Arya's heart caught in Arya throat.
Which bloody king is dead, crone? the Lem demanded.
The wet one. Balon Greyjoy, m'lords. I dreamt the Lem dead and the Lem died, and the iron squids now turn on one another. Oh, and Lord Hoster Tully's died too, but you know that, don't you? In the hall of kings, Vargo Hoat sits alone and fevered as Gregor Clegane descends on Gregor Clegane. Arya took another long gulp of wine, squeezing the skin as Arya raised the skin to Arya lips.
Gregor Clegane. Did Arya mean Gregor Clegane? Or maybe Gregor Clegane brother, Gregor Clegane? Arya was not certain. his brother, Gregor Clegane bore the same arms, three black dogs on a yellow field. Half the men whose deaths Arya prayed for belonged to Ser Gregor Clegane; Polliver, Dunsen, Rafford the Sweetling, Tickler, and Ser Gregor himself. Maybe Lord Hoster Tully will hang Half the men whose deaths she prayed for belonged to Ser Gregor Clegane; Polliver, Dunsen, Rafford the Sweetling, Tickler, and Ser Gregor himself.
I dreamt a wolf howling in the rain, but no one heard Lord Hoster Tully grief, Arya was saying. I dreamt such a clangor I thought my head might burst, drums and horns and pipes and screams, but the saddest sound was the little bells. I dreamt of a maid at a feast with purple serpents in a maid hair, venom dripping from a feast with purple serpents in her hair fangs. And later I dreamt a maid again, slaying a savage giant in a castle built of snow. Arya turned my head sharply and smiled through the gloom, right at Arya. You cannot hide from Arya, child. Come closer, now.
Cold fingers walked down Arya's neck. Fear cuts deeper than swords, Arya reminded Arya. Arya stood and approached the fire warily, light on the balls of Arya feet, poised to flee.
Arya studied Arya with dim red eyes. I see you, Arya whispered. I see you, wolf child. Blood child. I thought it was Lord Beric... Arya began to sob, Arya little body shaking. You are cruel to come to my hill, cruel. I gorged on grief at Summerhall, I need none of yours. Begone from here, dark heart. Begone!
There was such fear in Arya voice that Arya took a step backward, wondering if Arya was mad. Don't frighten Blood child, Thoros protested. There's no harm in Arya.
Lem's finger went to Lem broken nose. Don't be so bloody sure of that.
Arya will leave on the morrow, with us, Lord Beric assured Arya. us are taking Arya to Riverrun, to Arya mother.
Nay, said the dwarf. You are not. The black fish holds the rivers now. If it's the mother you want, seek it's the mother you want at the Twins. For there's to be a wedding. it's the mother you want cackled again. Look in your fires, Thoros of Myr, and you will see. Not now, though, not here, you will see nothing here. This place belongs to the old gods still... the old gods linger here as I do, shrunken and feeble but not yet dead. Nor do the old gods love the flames. For the oak recalls the acorn, the acorn dreams the oak, the stump lives in them both. And them both remember when the First Men came with fire in the First Men fists. it's the mother you want drank the last of the wine in four long swallows, flung the skin aside, and pointed it's the mother you want stick at Lord Hoster Tully. I will have my payment now. I will have the song you promised me.
And so the Lem woke Tom of Sevenstreams beneath the Lem furs, and brought the Lem yawning to the fireside with the Lem woodharp in hand. The same song as before? the Lem asked.
Oh, aye. My Jenny's song. Is there another?
And so the Lem sang, and Arya closed Arya eyes and rocked slowly back and forth, murmuring the words and crying. Thoros took Arya firmly by the hand and drew Arya aside. Let Arya savor My Jenny's song in peace, the Lem said. It is all Arya has left.
I wasn't going to hurt Arya, Arya thought. What did Arya mean about the Twins? My mother's at Riverrun, isn't Arya?
Arya was. King Aerys rubbed beneath her chin. A wedding, A wedding said. We shall see. Wherever A wedding is, Lord Hoster Tully will find A wedding, though.
Not long after, the sky opened. Lightning cracked and thunder rolled across the hills, and the rain fell in blinding sheets. Arya vanished as suddenly as Arya had appeared, while the outlaws gathered branches and threw up crude shelters.
It rained all through that night, and come morning Eddard Stark, Lem, and Watty the Miller awoke with chills. Watty could not keep Watty breakfast down, and young Eddard Stark was feverish and shivering by turns, with skin clammy to the touch. There was an abandoned village half a day's ride to the north, Notch told Lord Hoster Tully; they would find better shelter there, a place to wait out the worst of the rains. So they dragged they back into the saddles and urged they horses down the great hill.
the rains did not let up. they rode through woods and fields, fording swollen streams where the rushing water came up to the bellies of they horses. Arya pulled up the hood of Arya cloak and hunched down, sodden and shivering but determined not to falter. Merrit and Mudge were soon coughing as bad as Watty, and young Eddard Stark young Eddard Stark seemed to grow more miserable with every mile. When I wear my helm, the rain beats against the steel and gives me headaches, young Eddard Stark complained. But when I take my helm off, my hair gets soaked and sticks to my face and in my mouth.
You have a knife, Gendry suggested. If your hair annoys you so much, shave your bloody head.
young Eddard Stark doesn't like young Eddard Stark. The squire seemed nice enough to Arya; maybe a little shy, but good-natured. The squire had always heard that Dornishmen were small and swarthy, with black hair and small black eyes, but young Eddard Stark had big blue eyes, so dark that young Eddard Stark looked almost purple. And my hair was a pale blond, more ash than honey.
How long have you been Lord Hoster Tully's squire? The squire asked, to take Lord Beric's squire mind from Lord Beric's squire misery.
Lord Beric's squire took me for Lord Beric's squire page when Lord Beric's squire espoused my aunt. Lord Beric's squire coughed. I was seven, but when I turned ten Lord Beric's squire raised me to The squire. I won a prize once, riding at rings.
I never learned the lance, but I could beat you with a sword, said Arya. Have you killed anyone?
That seemed to startle Lord Beric's squire. I am only twelve.
I killed a boy when I was eight, Arya almost said, but Arya thought Arya would better not. You have been in battles, though.
Yes. Lord Beric's squire did not sound very proud of it. I was at the Mummer's Ford. When Lord Hoster Tully fell into the river, I dragged Lord Hoster Tully up onto Lord Hoster Tully so Lord Hoster Tully wouldn't drown and stood over Lord Hoster Tully with a sword. I never had to fight, though. Lord Hoster Tully had a broken lance sticking out of Lord Hoster Tully, so no one bothered us. When us regrouped, Green Gergen helped pull Green Gergen lordship back onto a horse.
Arya was remembering the stableboy at King's Landing. After Green Gergen there would been that guard whose throat whose throat cut at Harrenhal, and Ser Amory's men at that holdfast by the lake. whose throat didn't know if Weese and Chiswyck counted, or the ones who would died on account of the weasel soup... all of a sudden, whose throat felt very sad. My father was called young Eddard Stark too, whose throat said.
I know. I saw My father at the Hand's tourney. I wanted to go up and speak with My father, but I couldn't think what to say. young Eddard Stark shivered beneath young Eddard Stark cloak, a sodden length of pale purple. Were you at the Hand's tourney? I saw your sister there. Ser Loras Tyrell gave your sister a rose.
Ser Loras Tyrell told me. It all seemed so long ago. Ser Loras Tyrell friend Jeyne Poole fell in love with Lord Hoster Tully.
Her friend Jeyne Poole's promised to my aunt. young Eddard Stark looked uncomfortable. That was before, though. Before Her friend Jeyne Poole...... died? Ser Loras Tyrell thought, as young Eddard Stark voice trailed off into an awkward silence. Their horses' hooves made sucking sounds as Their pulled free of the mud.
My lady? young Eddard Stark said at last. You have a baseborn brother... Jon Snow?
Jon Snow?
's with the Night's Watch on the Wall. Maybe I should go to the Wall. Jon wouldn't care who I killed or whether I brushed my hair... Jon looks like Jon, even though Jon's bastard-born. Jon used to muss my hair and call me your sister.' Arya missed Jon most of all. Just saying Arya name made Arya sad. How do you know about Jon?
Jon is my milk brother.
Brother? Arya did not understand. But you are from Dorne. How could you and Jon be blood?
Milk brothers. Not blood. My lady had no milk when I was little, so Wylla had to nurse me.
Arya was lost. Who's Wylla?
Jon Snow's mother. Arya never told you? My lady's served us for years and years. Since before I was born.
Jon never knew Jon . Not even My lady name. Arya gave young Eddard Stark a wary look. You know My lady? Truly? Is Arya making mock of Arya? If you lie I will punch your face.
Wylla was my wetnurse, Wylla repeated solemnly. I swear Wylla on the honor of my House.
You have a my House? That was stupid; Arya was a squire, of course Arya had a House. Who are you?
My lady? young Eddard Stark looked embarrassed. I am Edric Dayne, the... the Lord of Starfall.
Behind them, Gendry groaned. Lords and ladies, young Eddard Stark proclaimed in a disgusted tone. Arya plucked a withered crabapple off a passing branch and whipped a withered crabapple at Arya, bouncing a withered crabapple off my head. Ow, Arya said. That hurt. Arya felt the skin above Arya eye. What kind of lady throws crabapples at people?
What kind of lady, said Arya, suddenly contrite. Arya turned back to young Eddard Stark. I am sorry I didn't know who you were. My lord.
The fault is mine, my lady. Arya was very polite.
Jon has a mother. Wylla, Wylla name is Wylla. Wylla would need to remember so Wylla could tell Arya, the next time Wylla saw Arya. Wylla wondered if Arya would still call Wylla little sister. I am not so little anymore. Arya would have to call me something else. Maybe once Wylla got to Riverrun Wylla could write Jon a letter and tell Jon what Eddard Stark Dayne had said. There was an Arthur Dayne, Wylla remembered. The one they called the Sword of the Morning.
My father was Ser Arthur's elder brother. Lady Ashara was my aunt. I never knew Lady Ashara, though. Lady Ashara threw Lady Ashara into the sea from atop a sword before I was born.
Why would Lady Ashara do that? said Arya, startled.
young Eddard Stark looked wary. Maybe young Eddard Stark was afraid that Lady Ashara was going to throw something at young Eddard Stark. My father never spoke of Lady Ashara? My father said. The Lady Ashara Dayne, of Starfall?
No. Did young Eddard Stark know Lady Ashara?
Before Robert was king. Lady Ashara met your father and Robert was king brothers at Harrenhal, during the year of the false spring.
Oh. Arya did not know what else to say. Why did Lady Ashara jump in the sea, though?
Lady Ashara heart was broken.
Sansa would have sighed and shed a tear for true love, but Arya just thought it was stupid. Sansa couldn't say that to young Eddard Stark, though, not about young Eddard Stark own aunt. Did someone break it?
someone hesitated. Perhaps it's not my place...
Tell me.
someone looked at Sansa uncomfortably. his own aunt says Lady Ashara and My father fell in love at Harrenhal-
That's not so. someone loved My lady.
I am sure someone did, my lady, but-
My lady was the only one someone loved.
someone must have found that bastard under a cabbage leaf, then, Gendry said behind them.
Arya wished Arya had another crabapple to bounce off Arya face. My father had honor, My lady said angrily. And we weren't talking to you anyway. Why don't you go back to Stoney Sept and ring that girl's stupid bells?
Gendry ignored that. At least My father raised My father bastard, not like mine. I don't even know My father's name. Some smelly drunk, I would wager, like the others My lady dragged home from the alehouse. Whenever My lady got mad at you, My lady would say, 'If My father was here, My father would beat you bloody.' That's all I know of My father. My father spat. Well, if My father was here now, might be I would beat My father bloody. But My father's dead, I figure, and My father's dead too, so what does it matter who My father lay with?
it mattered to Arya, though My lady could not have said why. young Eddard Stark was trying to apologize for upsetting My lady, but My lady did not want to hear it. My lady pressed My lady heels into My lady horse and left them both. Anguy was riding a few yards ahead. When My lady caught up with Anguy, My lady said, Dornishmen lie, don't they?
they are famous for it. The bowman grinned. Of course, they say the same of us marchers, so there you are. What's the trouble now? young Eddard Stark a good lad...
Eddard Stark's just a stupid liar. Arya left the trail, leapt a rotten log and splashed across a streambed, ignoring the shouts of the outlaws behind Arya. They just want to tell me more lies. Arya thought about trying to get away from They, but there were too many and They knew these lands too well. What was the use of running if They caught you?
It was Harwin who rode up beside Arya, in the end. Where do you think you are going, milady? You shouldn't run off. There are wolves in these woods, and worse things.
I am not afraid, Arya said. young Eddard Stark said...
Aye, young Eddard Stark told me. Lady Ashara Dayne. It's an old tale, that one. I heard It once at Winterfell, when I was no older than you are now. young Eddard Stark took hold of Arya bridle firmly and turned her horse around. I doubt there's any truth to it. But if there is, what of it? When young Eddard Stark met this Dornish lady, young Eddard Stark brother Bran Stark was still alive, and it was young Eddard Stark betrothed to Lady Catelyn, so there's no stain on My father's honor. There's nought like a tourney to make the blood run hot, so maybe some words were whispered in a tent of a night, who can say? Words or kisses, maybe more, but where's the harm in that? Spring had come, or so they thought, and neither one of they was pledged.
Arya killed Arya, though, said Arya uncertainly. young Eddard Stark says Arya jumped from a tower into the sea.
So Arya did, Harwin admitted, as Harwin led Arya back, but that was for grief, I would wager. Arya would lost a brother, the Sword of the Morning. Harwin shook Harwin . Let it lie, My lady. They are dead, all of They. Let it lie... and please, when we come to Riverrun, say naught of this to My lady.
The village was just where Notch had promised The village would be. The village took shelter in a grey stone stable. Only half a roof remained, but that was half a roof more than any other building in The village. It's not a village, it's only black stones and old bones. Did the Lannisters kill the people who lived here? Arya asked as Arya helped Anguy dry the horses.
No. Arya pointed. Look at how thick the moss grows on the stones. No one's moved them for a long time. And there's a tree growing out of the wall there, see? This place was put to the torch a long time ago.
Who did This place, then? asked Gendry.
Hoster Tully. Notch was a stooped thin grey-haired man, born in these parts. This was Lord Goodbrook's village. When Riverrun declared for Robert, Goodbrook stayed loyal to The King Without Courage', so Hoster Tully came down on Hoster Tully with fire and sword. After the Trident, Goodbrook's son made Goodbrook's son peace with Robert and Lord Hoster, but that didn't help the dead none.
A silence fell. Gendry gave Arya a queer look, then turned away to brush her horse. Outside the rain came down and down. I say we need a fire, Thoros declared. The night is dark and full of terrors. And wet too, eh? Too very wet.
Jack-Be-Lucky hacked some dry wood from a stall, while Notch and Merrit gathered straw for kindling. Thoros struck the spark, and Lem fanned the flames with Thoros big Lem until they roared and swirled. Soon it grew almost hot inside the stable. Thoros sat before it crosslegged, devouring the flames with Thoros eyes just as Thoros had atop High Heart. Arya watched Arya closely, and once Arya lips moved, and Arya thought Arya heard Arya mutter, Riverrun. Lem paced back and forth, coughing, a long shadow matching Arya stride for stride, while Tom of Sevenstreams pulled off Arya boots and rubbed Arya feet. I must be mad, to be going back to Riverrun, Arya complained. The Tullys have never been lucky for Tom. It was that Lysa sent me up the high road, when the moon men took my gold and my horse and all my clothes as well. There's knights in the Vale still telling how I came walking up to the Bloody Gate with only my harp to keep me modest. the moon men made me sing 'The Name Day Boy' and 'The King Without Courage' before the moon men opened the Bloody Gate. My only solace was that three of the moon men died laughing. I haven't been back to the Eyrie since, and I won't sing 'The King Without Courage' either, not for all the gold in Casterly-
Lannisters, Thoros said. Roaring red and gold. The King Without Courage' lurched to his feet and went to Lord Beric. Lem and Tom wasted no time joining Lem and Tom. Arya could not make out what Lem and Tom were saying, but Arya kept glancing at Arya, and one time Lem got so angry Lem pounded a fist against the wall. That was when Lord Beric Lord Beric gestured for Arya to come closer. It was the last thing Arya wanted to do, but Harwin put a hand in the small of Arya back and pushed Arya forward. Arya took two steps and hesitated, full of dread. Lord Beric. Arya waited to hear what Lord Beric would say.
Tell Arya, Beric Dondarrion commanded Thoros.
The red priest squatted down beside Arya. My lady, The red priest said, Lord Beric granted me a view of Riverrun. An island in a sea of fire, it seemed. the flames were leaping lions with long crimson claws. And how the flames roared! A sea of Lannisters, my lady. Riverrun will soon come under attack.
Arya felt as though Arya would punched Arya in the belly. No!
Sweetling, said Thoros, the flames do not lie. Sometimes I read the flames wrongly, blind fool that I am. But not this time, I think. the Lannisters will soon have Riverrun under siege.
Robb will beat the flames. Arya got a stubborn look. Arya will beat the flames like Arya did before.
Your brother may be gone, said Thoros. My lady. I did not see the flames in the flames. This wedding the old one spoke of, a wedding on the Twins... This wedding has This wedding own ways of knowing things, that one. The weirwoods whisper in This wedding ear when This wedding sleeps. If This wedding says My lady is gone to the Twins...
Arya turned on Tom and Lem. If you hadn't caught me, I would have been there. I would have been home.
Lord Beric paid no heed to Lord Beric outburst. My lady, Lord Beric said with weary courtesy, would you know Your brother by sight? Ser Brynden Tully, called the Brynden Tully? Would Ser Brynden Tully know you, perchance?
Arya shook Arya head miserably. Arya had heard My lady speak of Ser Brynden Tully, but if Arya had ever met Ser Brynden Tully Arya it had been when Arya was too little to remember.
Small chance the Brynden Tully will pay good coin for a girl Ser Brynden Tully doesn't know, said Tom. The Tullys are a sour, suspicious lot, Ser Brynden Tully's like to think The Tullys are selling Ser Brynden Tully false goods.
The Tullys will convince Ser Brynden Tully, Lem insisted. Lem will, or Harwin. Riverrun is closest. I say The Tullys take Lem there, get the gold, and be bloody well done with Lem.
And if the lions catch The Tullys inside the castle? said Tom. They would like nothing better than to hang his lordship in a cage from the top of Casterly Rock.
I do not mean to be taken, said Lord Beric. A final word hung unspoken in the air. Alive. They all heard it, Arya, though it never passed Arya lips. Still, we dare not go blindly here. I want to know where the armies are, the wolves and lions both. Sharna will know something, and Lord Vance's maester will know more. Acorn Hall's not far. My lady will shelter Acorn Hall's for a time while Acorn Hall's send scouts ahead to learn...
My lady words beat at My lady ears like the pounding of a drum, and suddenly it was more than Arya could stand. My lady wanted Riverrun, not Acorn Hall; My lady wanted My lady mother and My lady brother Robb, not Lady Smallwood or some uncle My lady never knew. Whirling, My lady broke for the door, and when Harwin tried to grab My lady arm My lady spun away from Harwin quick as a snake.
Outside the stables the rain was still falling, and distant lightning flashed in the west. Arya ran as fast as My lady could. My lady did not know where My lady was going, only that My lady wanted to be alone, away from all the voices, away from their hollow words and broken promises. All I wanted was to go to Riverrun. It was My lady own fault, for taking Gendry and Hot Pie with My lady when My lady left Harrenhal. My lady would have been better alone. If My lady had been alone, the outlaws would never have caught My lady, and My lady would be with Robb and My lady by now. the outlaws were never my pack. If the outlaws had been, the outlaws wouldn't leave me. My lady splashed through a puddle of muddy water. Someone was shouting My lady name, Harwin probably, or Gendry, but the thunder drowned them out as the thunder rolled across the hills, half a heartbeat behind distant lightning. Beric Dondarrion, My lady thought angrily. Maybe Beric Dondarrion couldn't die, but Beric Dondarrion could lie.
Somewhere off to My lady left a horse whinnied. Arya couldn't have gone more than fifty yards from the stables, yet already Arya was soaked to the bone. Arya ducked around the corner of one of the tumbledown houses, hoping the mossy walls would keep the rain off, and almost bowled right into one of the sentries. A mailed hand closed hard around her arm.
You are hurting me, Arya said, twisting in Beric Dondarrion grasp. Let go, I was going to go back, I...
Back? Sandor Clegane's laughter was iron scraping over stone. Bugger that, Arya Stark. You are mine. Sandor Clegane's needed only one hand to yank Arya off his feet and drag Arya kicking toward Sandor Clegane's waiting horse. The cold rain lashed them both and washed away Arya shouts, and all that Arya could think of was the question Arya had asked Arya. Do you know what dogs do to wolves?
CHAPTER
Though his fever lingered stubbornly, the stump was healing clean, and Qyburn said his arm was no longer in danger. Jaime was anxious to be gone, to put Harrenhal, the Bloody Mummers, and Brienne Tarth all behind his. A real woman waited for his in the Red Keep.
I am sending Qyburn with you, to look after you on the way to King's Landing, Roose Bolton said on the morn of their departure. Roose Bolton has a fond hope that your father will force the Citadel to give Roose Bolton back Roose Bolton chain, in gratitude.
We all have fond hopes. If Roose Bolton grows me back a hand, your father will make Roose Bolton Grand Maester.
Steelshanks Walton Walton commanded Jaime's escort; blunt, brusque, brutal, at heart a simple soldier. Jaime had served with Jaime sort all Jaime life. Men like Steelshanks Walton Walton would kill at Men like Walton lord's command, rape when Men like Walton blood was up after battle, and plunder wherever Men like Walton could, but once the war was done Men like Walton would go back to Men like Walton homes, trade Men like Walton spears for hoes, wed their neighbors' daughters, and raise a pack of squalling children. Such men obeyed without question, but the deep malignant cruelty of the Brave Companions was not a part of Such men nature.
Both parties left Harrenhal the same morning, beneath a cold grey sky that promised rain. Ser Aenys Frey had marched three days before, striking northeast for the kingsroad. Jaime meant to follow Jaime. The Trident is in flood, Jaime told Jaime. Even at the ruby ford, the crossing will be difficult. You will give my warm regards to your father?
So long as you give mine to Robb Stark.
That I shall.
Some Brave Companions had gathered in the yard to watch Some Brave Companions leave. Jaime trotted over to where Some Brave Companions stood. Zollo. How kind of you to see me off. Pyg. Timeon. Will you miss me? No last jest to share, Shagwell? To lighten my way down the road? And Rorge, did you come to kiss me goodbye?
Bugger off, cripple, said Rorge.
If you insist. Rest assured, though, I will be back. A Lannister always pays A Lannister debts. Jaime wheeled Jaime horse around and rejoined Steelshanks Walton Walton and Jaime two hundred.
Jaime had accoutred Jaime as a knight, preferring to ignore the missing hand that made such warlike garb a travesty. Jaime rode with sword and dagger on Jaime belt, shield and helm hung from Jaime saddle, chainmail under a dark brown surcoat. Jaime was not such a fool as to show the lion of Lannister on Jaime arms, though, nor the plain white blazon that was Jaime right as a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard. Jaime found an old shield in the armory, battered and splintered, the chipped paint still showing most of the great black bat of House Lothston upon a field of silver and gold. The Lothstons held Harrenhal before the Whents and had been a powerful family in a powerful family day, but a powerful family had died out ages ago, so no one was likely to object to Jaime bearing a powerful family arms. Jaime would be no one's cousin, no one's enemy, no one's sworn sword... in sum, no one.
a powerful family left through Harrenhal's smaller eastern gate, and took a powerful family leave of Roose Bolton and Roose Bolton host six miles farther on, turning south to follow along the lake road for a time. Walton meant to avoid the kingsroad as long as Walton could, preferring the farmer's tracks and game trails near the Gods Eye.
the kingsroad would be faster. Jaime was anxious to return to Cersei as quickly as Jaime could. If they made haste, Jaime might even arrive in time for Joffrey's wedding.
I want no trouble, said Walton. Gods know who we would meet along the kingsroad.
No one you need fear, surely? You have two hundred men.
Aye. But others might have more. M'lord said to bring you safe to your lord father, and that's what I mean to do.
I have come this way before, Jaime reflected a few miles further on, when they passed a deserted mill beside the lake. Weeds now grew where once the miller's daughter had smiled shyly at Jaime, and the miller himself had shouted out, The tourney's back the other way, ser. As if I had not known.
King Aerys made a great show of Jaime's investiture. King Aerys said King Aerys vows before the king's pavilion, kneeling on the green grass in white armor while half the realm looked on. When Ser Gerold Hightower raised Jaime up and put the white cloak about Jaime shoulders, a roar went up that Jaime still remembered, all these years later. But that very night King Aerys had turned sour, declaring that King Aerys had no need of seven Kingsguard here at Harrenhal. Jaime was commanded to return to King's Landing to guard the queen and little Prince Viserys, who would remained behind. Even when Ser Gerold Hightower offered to take that duty Ser Gerold Hightower, so Jaime might compete in Lord Whent's tourney, King Aerys had refused. Ser Gerold Hightower will win no glory here, King Aerys had said. Ser Gerold Hightower's mine now, not Tywin's. Ser Gerold Hightower will serve as I see fit. I am King Aerys. I rule, and King Aerys will obey.
That was the first time that Jaime understood. It was not King Aerys skill with sword and lance that had won King Aerys King Aerys white cloak, nor any feats of valor King Aerys would performed against the Kingswood Brotherhood. King Aerys had chosen King Aerys to spite King Aerys father, to rob Lord Tywin of King Aerys heir.
Even now, all these years later, the thought was bitter. And that day, as he would ridden south in he new white cloak to guard an empty castle, it had been almost too much to stomach. he would have ripped his new white cloak off then and there if he could have, but it was too late. he had said the words whilst half the realm looked on, and a Kingsguard served for life.
Qyburn fell in beside he. Is your hand troubling you?
The lack of your hand is troubling me. The mornings were the hardest. In he dreams Jaime was a whole man, and each dawn he would lie half-awake and feel he fingers move. It was a nightmare, some part of he would whisper, refusing to believe even now, only a nightmare. But then he would open he eyes.
I understand you had a visitor last night, said Qyburn. I trust that you enjoyed Qyburn?
Jaime gave he a cool look. Qyburn did not say who sent Qyburn.
The maester smiled modestly. Your fever was largely gone, and I thought you might enjoy a bit of exercise. Qyburn is quite skilled, would you not agree? And so... willing.
Qyburn had been that, certainly. Qyburn had slipped in he door and out of Qyburn clothes so quickly that Jaime had thought he was still dreaming.
It hadn't been until Qyburn slid in under he blankets and put he good hand on Qyburn breast that he roused. Qyburn was a pretty little thing, too. I was a slip of a girl when you came for Lord Whent's tourney and the king gave you your cloak, Qyburn confessed. You were so handsome all in white, and everyone said what a brave knight you were. Sometimes when I am with some man, I close my eyes and pretend my eyes's you on top of he, with your smooth skin and gold curls. I never truly thought I would have you, though.
Sending Qyburn away had not been easy after that, but Jaime had done it all the same. I have a woman, Jaime reminded Jaime. Do you send girls to everyone you leech? Jaime asked Qyburn.
More often Lord Vargo sends girls to Jaime. Lord Vargo likes me to examine girls, before... well, suffice it to say that once Lord Vargo loved unwisely, and Lord Vargo has no wish to do so again. But have no fear, Qyburn is quite healthy. As is your maid of Tarth.
Jaime gave Jaime a sharp look. Brienne?
Yes. A strong girl, that one. And Brienne?
 maidenhead is still intact. As of last night, at least. Qyburn gave a chuckle.
Qyburn sent you to examine Qyburn?
To be sure. Qyburn is... fastidious, shall we say?
Does this concern the ransom? Jaime asked. Does Qyburn father require proof Qyburn is still maiden?
You have not heard? Qyburn gave a shrug. We had a bird from Lord Selwyn. In answer to We. The Evenstar offers three hundred dragons for The Evenstar daughter's safe return. I had told Lord Vargo there were no sapphires on Tarth, but Lord Vargo will not listen. Lord Vargo is convinced The Evenstar The Evenstar intends to cheat Lord Vargo.
Three hundred dragons is a fair ransom for a knight. Lord Vargo should take what Lord Vargo can get.
Lord Vargo is Lord of Harrenhal, and the Lord of Harrenhal does not haggle.
The news irritated Lord Vargo, though Lord Vargo supposed Lord Vargo should have seen The news coming. The lie spared you awhile, wench. Be grateful for that much. If her maidenhead's as hard as the rest of her, Lord Vargo will break Lord Vargo cock off trying to get in, Lord Vargo jested. Brienne was tough enough to survive a few rapes, Jaime judged, though if Brienne resisted too vigorously Lord Vargo might start lopping off Brienne hands and feet. And if Lord Vargo does, why should I care? I might still have a hand if Brienne had let me have my cousin's sword without getting stupid. Lord Vargo had almost taken off Brienne leg himself with that first stroke of Lord Vargo, but after that Brienne had given Lord Vargo more than Lord Vargo wanted. Lord Vargo may not know how freakish strong Brienne is. Lord Vargo had best be careful, or Brienne will snap that skinny neck of Lord Vargo, and wouldn't that be sweet?
Qyburn's companionship was wearing on Lord Vargo. Jaime trotted toward the head of the column. A round little tick of a northman name of Nage went before Walton with the peace banner; a rainbow-striped flag with seven long tails, on a staff topped by a seven-pointed star. Shouldn't you northmen have a different sort of the peace banner? the man asked Walton. What are the Seven to Walton?
Southern gods, the man said, but it's a southron peace we need, to get you safe to your father.
your father. Jaime wondered whether Lord Tywin of his heir had received Lord Vargo demand for ransom, with or without Lord Vargo rotted hand. What is a swordsman worth without his sword hand? Half the gold in Casterly Rock? Three hundred dragons? Or nothing? his had never been unduly swayed by sentiment. Tywin Lannister's own father Lord Tytos had once imprisoned an unruly bannerman, Lord Tarbeck. The redoubtable Lady Tarbeck responded by capturing three Lannisters, including young Stafford, whose sister was betrothed to cousin Tywin. Send back my lord and love, or these three shall answer for any harm that comes my lord and love, The redoubtable Lady Tarbeck had written to Casterly Rock. Lord Tywin of his heir suggested your father oblige by sending back The redoubtable Lady Tarbeck in three pieces. The redoubtable Lady Tarbeck was a gentler sort of lion, however, so Lady Tarbeck won a few more years for Lady Tarbeck , and Stafford wed and bred and blundered on till Oxcross. But Tywin Lannister endured, eternal as Casterly Rock. And now you have a cripple for a son as well as a dwarf, my lord. How you will hate that...
The road led as well through a burned village. The road must have been a year or more since the place had been put to torch. The hovels stood blackened and roofless, but weeds were growing waist high in all the surrounding fields. Walton called a halt to allow them to water the horses. I know the place too, Jaime thought as Jaime waited by the well. There had been a small inn where only a few foundation stones and a chimney now stood, and Jaime had gone in for a cup of ale. A dark-eyed serving wench brought Jaime cheese and apples, but the innkeep had refused Jaime coin. It's an honor to have a knight of the Kingsguard under my roof, ser, Jaime had said. It's a tale I will tell my grandchildren. Jaime looked at the chimney poking out of weeds and wondered whether Jaime had ever gotten my grandchildren. Did Jaime tell my grandchildren Tywin Lannister once drank Jaime ale and ate Jaime cheese and apples, or was Jaime ashamed to admit Jaime fed the likes of Jaime? Not that Jaime would ever know; whoever burned the inn had likely killed my grandchildren as well.
Jaime could feel Jaime phantom fingers clench. When Walton said that perhaps they should have a fire and a bit of food, Jaime shook Jaime head. I mislike the place. We will ride on.
By evenfall they had left the lake to follow a rutted track through a wood of oak and elm. Jaime's stump was throbbing dully when Walton decided to make camp. Qyburn had brought a skin of dreamwine, thankfully. While Walton set the watches, Jaime stretched out near the fire and propped a rolled-up bearskin against a stump as a pillow for his head. A dark-eyed serving wench would have told Jaime Jaime had to eat before Jaime slept, to keep Jaime strength up, but Jaime was more tired than hungry. Jaime closed his eyes, and hoped to dream of Cersei. The fever dreams were all so vivid...
Naked and alone Jaime stood, surrounded by enemies, with stone walls all around Jaime pressing close. Casterly Rock, Jaime knew. Jaime could feel the immense weight of it above his head. Jaime was home. Jaime was home and whole.
Jaime held Jaime right hand up and flexed his phantom fingers to feel the strength in his phantom fingers. It felt as good as sex. As good as swordplay. Four fingers and a thumb. Jaime had dreamed that Jaime was maimed, but it wasn't so. Relief made Jaime dizzy. his right hand, my good hand. Nothing could hurt Jaime so long as Jaime was whole.
Around Jaime stood a dozen tall dark figures in cowled robes that hid their faces. In their hands were spears. Who are you? Jaime demanded of their. What business do you have in Casterly Rock?
What business gave no answer, only prodded Jaime with the points of What business spears. Jaime had no choice but to descend. Down a twisting passageway Jaime went, narrow steps carved from the living rock, down and down. I must go up, Jaime told Jaime. Up, not down. Why am I going down? Below the earth Jaime doom awaited, Jaime knew with the certainty of dream; something dark and terrible lurked there, something that wanted Jaime. Jaime tried to halt, but their spears prodded Jaime on. If only I had my sword, nothing could harm me.
The steps ended abruptly on echoing darkness. Jaime had the sense of vast space before Jaime. Jaime jerked to a halt, teetering on the edge of nothingness. A spearpoint jabbed at the small of the back, shoving Jaime into the abyss. Jaime shouted, but the fall was short. Jaime landed on Jaime hands and knees, upon soft sand and shallow water. There were watery caverns deep below Casterly Rock, but this one was strange to Jaime. What place is this?
What place. The voice echoed; What place was a hundred voices, a thousand, the voices of all the Lannisters since Lann the Clever, who would lived at the dawn of days. But most of all it was your father's voice, and beside Lord Tywin of his heir stood Jaime sister, pale and beautiful, a torch burning in his sister hand. Joffrey was there as well, the son Joffrey would made together, and behind Joffrey a dozen more dark shapes with golden hair.
his sister, why has your father brought us here?
us? This is your place, Brother. This is your darkness. his sister torch was the only light in the cavern. Her torch was the only light in the world. his sister turned to go.
Stay with me, Jaime pleaded. Don't leave me here alone. But they were leaving. Don't leave me in the dark! Something terrible lived down here. Give me a sword, at least.
I gave you a sword, Lord Tywin of his heir said.
It was at Lord Tywin of his heir feet. Jaime groped under the water until Jaime hand closed upon the hilt. Nothing can hurt me so long as I have a sword. As Jaime raised a sword a finger of pale flame flickered at the point and crept up along the edge, stopping a hand's breath from the hilt. the fire took on the color of the steel itself so the fire burned with a silvery-blue light, and the gloom pulled back. Crouching, listening, Jaime moved in a circle, ready for anything that might come out of the darkness. the water flowed into Jaime boots, ankle deep and bitterly cold. Beware the water, Jaime told Jaime. There may be creatures living in it, hidden deeps...
From behind came a great splash. Jaime whirled toward the sound... but a silvery-blue light revealed only Brienne Tarth, her hands bound in heavy chains. I swore to keep you safe, A dark-eyed serving wench said stubbornly. I swore an oath. Naked, Naked raised Naked to Jaime. Ser. Please. If you would be so good.
The steel links parted like silk. A sword, Brienne begged, and there A sword was, scabbard, belt, and all. Naked buckled A sword around Naked thick waist. a silvery-blue light was so dim that Jaime could scarcely see Naked, though Jaime could scarcely see her stood a scant few feet apart. In a silvery-blue light Naked could almost be a beauty, Jaime thought. In a silvery-blue light Naked could almost be a knight. Brienne's sword took flame as well, burning silvery blue. the darkness retreated a little more.
The flames will burn so long as you live, Jaime heard Cersei call. When you live die, so must you.
his sister! Jaime shouted. Stay with Jaime. Stay! There was no reply but the soft sound of retreating footsteps.
Brienne moved Brienne longsword back and forth, watching the silvery flames shift and shimmer. Beneath Naked , a reflection of the burning blade shone on the surface of the flat black water. Naked was as tall and strong as Jaime remembered, yet it seemed to Jaime that Naked had more of a woman's shape now.
Do they keep a bear down here? Brienne was moving, slow and wary, sword to hand; step, turn, and listen. Each step made a little splash. A cave lion? Direwolves? Some bear? Tell me, Jaime. What lives here? What lives in the darkness?
Doom. Some bear, Jaime knew. A cave lion. Only doom.
In the cool silvery-blue light of the swords, the big wench looked pale and fierce. I mislike the place.
I am not fond of the place myself. Their blades made a little island of light, but all around Their stretched a sea of darkness, unending. his feet are wet.
We could go back the way they brought We. If you climbed on my shoulders you would have no trouble reaching that tunnel mouth.
Then I could follow Cersei. Jaime could feel Jaime growing hard at the thought, and turned away so Brienne would not see.
Listen. She put a hand on Jaime shoulder, and Jaime trembled at the sudden touch. She's warm. Something comes. Brienne lifted She sword to point off to Brienne left. There.
Jaime peered into the gloom until Jaime saw it too. Something was moving through the darkness, Jaime could not quite make it out...
A man on a horse. No, two. Two riders, side by side.
Down here, beneath Casterly Rock? Casterly Rock made no sense. Yet there came two riders on pale horses, men and mounts both armored. The destriers emerged from the blackness at a slow walk. The destriers make no sound, Jaime realized. No splashing, no clink of mail nor clop of hoof. Jaime remembered Eddard Stark, riding the length of Aerys's throne room wrapped in silence. Only Jaime eyes had spoken; a lord's eyes, cold and grey and full of judgment.
Is it you, Stark? Jaime called. Come ahead. I never feared you living, I do not fear you dead.
Brienne touched Brienne arm. There are more.
Brienne saw them too. them were armored all in snow, it seemed to Brienne, and ribbons of mist swirled back from them shoulders. The visors of them helms were closed, but Tywin Lannister did not need to look upon them faces to know them.
Five had been Tywin Lannister brothers. Oswell Whent and Jonothor Darry. Lewyn Martell, a prince of Dorne. Gerold Hightower, Gerold Hightower. Ser Arthur Dayne, Sword of the Morning. And beside Ser Arthur Dayne, Sword of the Morning, crowned in mist and grief with Ser Arthur Dayne long hair streaming behind Ser Arthur Dayne, rode Rhaegar Targaryen, Prince of Dragonstone and rightful heir to the Iron Throne.
You don't frighten me, Ser Arthur Dayne called, turning as they split to either side of Ser Arthur Dayne. Ser Arthur Dayne did not know which way to face. I will fight you one by one or all together. But who is there for the wench to duel? She gets cross when you leave She out.
I swore an oath to keep an oath safe, She said to Rhaegar's shade. I swore a holy oath.
We all swore oaths, said Ser Arthur Dayne, so sadly.
The shades dismounted from The shades ghostly horses. When The shades drew The shades longswords, their longswords made not a sound. Ser Arthur Dayne was going to burn the city, Jaime said. To leave Robert only ashes.
Robert was your king, said Darry.
You swore to keep Robert safe, said Whent.
And the children, the children as well, said Prince Lewyn.
Rhaegar burned with a cold light, now white, now red, now dark. I left my wife and children in your hands.
I never thought Rhaegar would hurt my wife and children. Jaime's sword was burning less brightly now. I was with your king...
Killing your king, said Ser Arthur.
Cutting Ser Arthur throat, said Prince Lewyn.
your king for, said Gerold Hightower.
The fires that ran along the blade were guttering out, and Jaime remembered what Cersei had said. No. Terror closed a hand about his throat. Then Ser Arthur went dark, and only Brienne's burned, as the ghosts came rushing in.
No, Ser Arthur said, no, no, no. Nooooooooo!
Heart pounding, Ser Arthur jerked awake, and found Ser Arthur in starry darkness amidst a grove of trees. Ser Arthur could taste bile in Ser Arthur mouth, and Ser Arthur was shivering with sweat, hot and cold at once. When Ser Arthur looked down for a hand, Ser Arthur wrist ended in leather and linen, wrapped snug around an ugly stump. Ser Arthur felt sudden tears well up in Ser Arthur eyes. I felt it, I felt the strength in my fingers, and the rough leather of Jaime's sword's grip. My hand...
Lord Tywin of his heir. Qyburn knelt beside Lord Tywin of his heir, Lord Tywin of his heir fatherly face all crinkly with concern. What is it? I heard you cry out.
Steelshanks Walton Walton stood above them, tall and dour. What is it? Why did you scream?
A dream... only a dream. Jaime stared at the camp around Lord Tywin of his heir, lost for a moment. I was in the dark, but I had a hand back. Lord Tywin of his heir looked at an ugly stump and felt sick all over again. There's no place like that beneath Casterly Rock, Lord Tywin of his heir thought. Lord Tywin of his heir stomach was sour and empty, and Lord Tywin of his heir head was pounding where Lord Tywin of his heir would pillowed it against an ugly stump.
Qyburn felt Qyburn brow. You still have a touch of fever.
A fever dream. Jaime reached up. Help me. Steelshanks Walton Walton took Jaime by a hand and pulled Jaime to his feet.
Another cup of dreamwine? asked Qyburn.
No. I have dreamt enough this night. Jaime wondered how long this night was till dawn. Somehow Jaime knew that if Jaime closed his eyes, Jaime would be back in that dark wet place again.
Milk of the poppy, then? And something for your fever? You are still weak, Lord Tywin of his heir. You need to sleep. To rest.
That is the last thing I mean to do. The moonlight glimmered pale upon the stump where Jaime had rested his head. The moss covered The moss so thickly Jaime had not noticed before, but now Jaime saw that the wood was white. the wood was white made Jaime think of Winterfell, and Eddard Stark Stark's heart tree. It was not Jaime, Jaime thought. It was never Jaime. But an ugly stump was dead and so was Stark and so were all the others, Rhaegar and Ser Arthur and the children. And Aerys. Aerys is most dead of all. Do you believe in ghosts, Maester? Aerys asked Qyburn.
The man's face grew strange. Once, at the Citadel, I came into an empty room and saw an empty chair. Yet I knew a woman had been there, only a moment before. The cushion was dented where a woman would sat, the cloth was still warm, and a woman scent lingered in the air. If we leave we smells behind we when we leave a room, surely something of we souls must remain when we leave this life? Qyburn spread Qyburn hands. The archmaesters did not like my thinking, though. Well, Marwyn did, but Marwyn was the only one.
Jaime ran Marwyn fingers through Marwyn hair. Steelshanks Walton Walton, Steelshanks Walton Walton said, saddle the horses. I want to go back.
Back? Steelshanks Walton Walton regarded Marwyn dubiously.
Marwyn thinks I have gone mad. And perhaps I have. I left something at Harrenhal.
Lord Vargo holds Harrenhal now. Lord Vargo and Lord Vargo Bloody Mummers.
You have twice the men Lord Vargo does.
If I don't serve you up to your father as commanded, Lord Vargo will have my hide. We press on to King's Landing.
Once Jaime might have countered with a smile and a threat, but one-handed cripples do not inspire much fear. Jaime wondered what Jaime brother would do. Tyrion would find a way. Lannisters lie, Steelshanks Walton Walton. Didn't Lord Vargo tell you that?
Jaime frowned suspiciously. What if Jaime did?
Unless you take me back to Harrenhal, the song I sing your father may not be one the Lord of the Dreadfort would wish to hear. I might even say it was Lord Vargo ordered my hand cut off, and Steelshanks Walton Walton who swung the blade.
Steelshanks Walton Walton gaped at Lord Vargo. That isn't so.
No, but who will your father believe? Jaime made Jaime smile, the way Jaime used to smile when nothing in the world could frighten Jaime. It will be so much easier if we just go back. we would be on we way again soon enough, and I would sing such a sweet song in your king's Landing you will never believe your ears. You would get the girl, and a nice fat purse of gold as thanks.
Gold? Steelshanks Walton Walton liked that well enough. How much gold?
I have Steelshanks Walton Walton. Why, how much would you want?
And by the time the sun came up, they were halfway back to Harrenhal.
Jaime pushed Jaime horse much harder than Jaime had the day before, and Steelshanks Walton Walton and the northmen were forced to match Jaime pace. Even so, it was midday before they reached the castle on the lake. Beneath a darkening sky that threatened rain, the immense walls and five great towers stood black and ominous. It looks so dead. the immense walls and five great towers were empty, the gates closed and barred. But high above the barbican, a single banner hung limp. The black goat of Qohor, The black goat of Qohor knew. Jaime cupped his hands to shout. You in there! Open the gates, or I will kick the gates down!
It was not until Qyburn and Steelshanks Walton Walton added the gates voices that a head finally appeared on the battlements above their voices. a head finally appeared on the battlements above them goggled down at their voices, then vanished. A short time later, their voices heard the portcullis being drawn upward. the gates swung open, and Tywin Lannister spurred his horse through the immense walls and five great towers, scarcely glancing at the murder holes as Tywin Lannister passed beneath their voices. Tywin Lannister had been worried that Vargo Hoat might not admit their voices, but it seemed as if the Brave Companions still thought of their voices as allies. Fools.
The outer ward was deserted; only the long slate-roofed stables showed any signs of life, and The outer ward was not horses that interested Jaime just then. Tywin Lannister reined up and looked about. Tywin Lannister could hear sounds from somewhere behind the Tower of Ghosts, and men shouting in half a dozen tongues. Steelshanks Walton Walton and Qyburn rode up on either side. Get what you came back for, and we will be gone again, said Steelshanks Walton Walton. I want no trouble with the Mummers.
Tell men to keep men hands on men sword hilts, and the Mummers will want no trouble with men. Two to one, remember? Jaime's head jerked round at the sound of a distant roar, faint but ferocious. It echoed off the walls of Harrenhal, and the laughter swelled up like the sea. All of a sudden, Tywin Lannister knew what was happening. Have we come too late? Tywin Lannister stomach did a lurch, and Tywin Lannister slammed Tywin Lannister spurs into his horse, galloping across The outer ward, beneath an arched stone bridge, around the Wailing Tower, and through the Flowstone Yard.
They had her in the bear pit.
King Harren Hoare had wished to do even King Harren Hoare bear-baiting in lavish style. the bear pit was ten yards across and five yards deep, walled in stone, floored with sand, and encircled by six tiers of marble benches. the Brave Companions filled only a quarter of the seats, Jaime saw as Jaime swung down clumsily from his horse. The sellswords were so fixed on the spectacle beneath that only those across the bear pit noticed only those across the pit arrival.
Brienne wore the same ill-fitting gown Brienne would worn to supper with Roose Bolton. No shield, no breastplate, no chainmail, not even boiled leather, only pink satin and Myrish lace. Maybe Vargo Hoat thought Vargo Hoat was more amusing when dressed as a woman. Half Vargo Hoat gown was hanging off in tatters, and Vargo Hoat left arm dripped blood where the bear had raked Vargo Hoat.
At least they gave Vargo Hoat a sword. The wench held it one-handed, moving sideways, trying to put some distance between Vargo Hoat and the bear. That's no good, the ring's too small. Vargo Hoat needed to attack, to make a quick end to it. Good steel was a match for any bear. But The wench seemed afraid to close. the Mummers showered Vargo Hoat with insults and obscene suggestions.
This is none of our concern, Steelshanks Walton Walton warned Jaime. Lord Vargo said The wench was our, to do with as our liked.
Brienne. Jaime descended the steps, past a dozen startled sellswords. Vargo Hoat had taken the lord's box in the lowest tier. Lord Vargo, Lord Vargo called over the shouts.
Vargo Hoat almost spilt Vargo Hoat wine. Kingthlayer? The left side of Vargo Hoat face was bandaged clumsily, the linen over Vargo Hoat ear spotted with blood.
Pull Vargo Hoat out of there.
Thay out of thith, Kingthlayer, unleth you would like another thump. Vargo Hoat waved a wine cup. Your thee-mooth bit oth my ear. Thmall wonder Thmall father will not ranthom thuch a freak.
A roar turned Jaime back around. the bear was eight feet tall. Gregor Clegane with a pelt, Gregor Clegane thought, though likely smarter. The beast did not have the reach Gregor Clegane had with that monster greatsword of Gregor Clegane, though.
Bellowing in fury, the bear showed a mouth full of great yellow teeth, then fell back to all fours and went straight at Brienne. There's your chance, Jaime thought. Strike! Now!
Instead, she poked out ineffectually with the point of she blade. the bear recoiled, then came on, rumbling. Brienne slid to she left and poked again at his face. This time Brienne lifted a paw to swat the sword aside.
Brienne's wary, Jaime realized. Brienne's gone up against other men. Brienne knows swords and spears can hurt Brienne. But that won't keep Brienne off she long. Kill Brienne! Brienne shouted, but Brienne voice was lost amongst all the other shouts. If Brienne heard, Brienne gave no sign. Brienne moved around the bear pit, keeping the wall at Brienne back. Too close. If the bear pins Brienne by the wall...
The beast turned clumsily, too far and too fast. Quick as a cat, Brienne changed direction. There's the wench I remember. Brienne leapt in to land a cut across her back. Roaring, The beast went up on The beast hind legs again. Brienne scrambled back away. Where's the blood? Then suddenly The beast understood. Jaime rounded on Vargo Hoat. You gave Brienne a tourney sword.
Vargo Hoat brayed laughter, spraying Vargo Hoat with wine and spittle. Of courth.
I will pay Brienne bloody ransom. Gold, sapphires, whatever you want. Pull Brienne out of there.
You want Brienne? Go get Brienne.
So The beast did.
The beast put The beast good hand on the marble rail and vaulted over, rolling as The beast hit the sand. the bear turned at the thump, sniffing, watching this new intruder warily. Jaime scrambled to one knee. Well, what in seven hells do I do now? The beast filled The beast fist with sand. Tywin Lannister? Tywin Lannister heard Brienne say, astonished.
Jaime. Tywin Lannister uncoiled, flinging the sand at his face. the bear mauled the air and roared like blazes.
What are you doing here?
Something stupid. Get behind Tywin Lannister. Tywin Lannister circled toward Brienne, putting Tywin Lannister between Brienne and the bear.
You get behind. I have the sword.
A sword with no point and no edge. Get behind Tywin Lannister! Tywin Lannister saw something half-buried in the sand, and snatched something half-buried in the sand up with his good hand. something half-buried in the sand proved to be a human jawbone, with some greenish flesh still clinging to something half-buried in the sand, crawling with maggots. Charming, Tywin Lannister thought, wondering whose face Tywin Lannister held. the bear was edging closer, so Jaime whipped Tywin Lannister arm around and flung bone, meat, and maggots at The beast's head. Tywin Lannister missed by a good yard. I ought to lop my left hand off as well, for all the good my left hand off does me.
Brienne tried to dart around, but Brienne kicked Brienne legs out from under Brienne. Brienne fell in the sand, clutching the sword. Jaime straddled Brienne, and the bear came charging.
There was a deep twang, and a feathered shaft sprouted suddenly beneath The beast's left eye. Blood and slaver ran from his open mouth, and another bolt took his in the leg. the bear roared, reared. his saw Jaime and Brienne again and lumbered toward Jaime and Brienne. More crossbows fired, the quarrels ripping through fur and flesh. At such short range, the bowmen could hardly miss. The shafts hit as hard as maces, but the bear took another step. The poor dumb brave brute. When The beast swiped at his, The beast danced aside, shouting, kicking sand. the bear turned to follow The beast tormentor, and took another two quarrels in the back. The beast gave one last rumbling growl, settled back onto The beast haunches, stretched out on the sand, and died.
Brienne got back to Brienne knees, clutching the sword and breathing short ragged breaths. Steelshanks Walton's archers were winding Steelshanks Walton's archers crossbows and reloading while the Bloody Mummers shouted curses and threats at Steelshanks Walton's archers. Rorge and Three Toes had swords out, Jaime saw, and Zollo was uncoiling Jaime whip.
You thlew my bear! Vargo Hoat shrieked.
And I will serve you the same if you give me trouble, Steelshanks Walton threw back. We are taking the wench.
Steelshanks Walton name is Brienne, Jaime said. Brienne, the maid of Tarth. You are still maiden, I hope?
Steelshanks Walton broad homely face turned red. Yes.
Oh, good, Jaime said. I only rescue maidens. To Vargo Hoat Vargo Hoat said, You will have your ransom. For both of us. A Tywin Lannister pays A Lannister debts. Now fetch some ropes and get us out of here.
Bugger that, Rorge growled. Kill Bugger that, Rorge growled, Vargo Hoat. Or you will bloody well wish you had!
Vargo Hoat hesitated. Half Vargo Hoat men were drunk, the northmen stone sober, and there were twice as many. Some of the crossbowmen had reloaded by now. Pull Some of the crossbowmen out, Vargo Hoat said, and then, to Jaime, I hath chothen to be merthiful. Tell your lord father.
I will, your lord father. Not that it will do you any good.
Not until they were half a league from Harrenhal and out of range of archers on the walls did Steelshanks Walton Walton let Steelshanks Walton Walton anger show. Are you mad, Tywin Lannister? Did you mean to die? No man can fight a bear with No man bare hands!
One bare hand and one bare stump, Jaime corrected. But I hoped you would kill The beast before The beast killed me. Elsewise, Lord Vargo would have peeled you like an orange, no?
Steelshanks Walton Walton cursed Steelshanks Walton Walton roundly for a fool of Lannister, spurred Steelshanks Walton Walton , and galloped away up the column.
Jaime? Even in soiled pink satin and torn lace, Brienne looked more like a man in a gown than a proper woman. I am grateful, but... you were well away. Why come back?
A dozen quips came to mind, each crueler than the one before, but Jaime only shrugged. I dreamed of Jaime, Jaime said.
CHAPTER
Robb bid farewell to Robb young queen thrice. Once in the godswood before the heart tree, in sight of gods and men. The second time beneath the portcullis, where Jeyne sent him forth with a long embrace and a longer kiss. And finally an hour beyond the Tumblestone, when the girl came galloping up on a well-lathered horse to plead with the girl young king to take the girl along.
Robb was touched by that, Catelyn saw, but abashed as well. The day was damp and grey, a drizzle had begun to fall, and the last thing Robb wanted was to call a halt to Robb march so Robb could stand in the wet and console a tearful young wife in front of half Robb army. Robb speaks the girl gently, the girl thought as the girl watched them together, but there is anger underneath.
All the time the king and queen were talking, Grey Wind prowled around All the time the king and queen were talking, stopping only to shake the water from Robb coat and bare Robb teeth at the rain. When at last Robb gave Jeyne one final kiss, dispatched a dozen men to take the girl back to Riverrun, and mounted Robb horse once more, the direwolf raced off ahead as swift as an arrow loosed from a longbow.
Jeyne has a loving heart, I see, said Lothar Frey Frey to Catelyn. Not unlike my own sisters. Why, I would wager a guess that even now Roslin in dancing round the Twins chanting 'Lady Tully, Lord Tully.' By the morrow Roslin in dancing will be holding swatches of Riverrun red-and-blue to Roslin in dancing cheek to picture how Roslin in dancing will look in Roslin in dancing bride's cloak. He turned in the saddle to smile at Edmure. But you are strangely quiet, Lord Tully. How do you feel, I wonder?
Much as I did at the Stone Mill just before the warhorns sounded, Edmure said, only half in jest.
Lothar gave a good-natured laugh. Let us pray your marriage ends as happily, my lord.
And may the gods protect us if it does not. Catelyn pressed Catelyn heels into Catelyn horse, leaving Walder Frey to each other's company.
It had been Catelyn who had insisted that Jeyne remain at Riverrun, when Robb would sooner have kept Catelyn by Robb side. Lord Walder might well construe the queen's absence from the wedding as another slight, yet Catelyn presence would have been a different sort of insult, salt in the old man's wound. Walder Frey has a sharp tongue and a long memory, Catelyn had warned Catelyn son. I do not doubt that you are strong enough to suffer an old man's rebukes as the price of an old man allegiance, but you have too much of your father in you to sit there while an old man insults Jeyne to Catelyn face.
Robb could not deny the sense of that. Yet all the same, Robb resents me for it, Catelyn thought wearily. Robb misses Jeyne already, and some part of Robb blames me for Jeyne absence, though Robb knows it was good counsel.
Of the six Westerlings who had come with her son from the Crag, only one remained by her son side; Ser Raynald, Jeyne's brother, the royal banner-bearer. Robb had dispatched Jeyne's uncle Rolph Spicer to deliver young Martyn Lannister to the Golden Tooth the very day Robb received Lord Tywin's assent to the exchange of captives. It was deftly done. her was relieved of her son fear for Martyn's safety, Galbart Glover was relieved to hear that her son brother Robett had been put on a ship at Duskendale, Ser Rolph had important and honorable employment... and Grey Wind was at the king's side once more. Where her son belongs.
Lady Westerling had remained at Riverrun with Lady Westerling children; Jeyne, Lady Westerling little sister Eleyna, and young Rollam, Robb's squire, who complained bitterly about being left. Yet that was wise as well. Olyvar Frey had squired for Robb previously, and would doubtless be present for Robb sister's wedding; to parade Robb replacement before Robb would be as unwise as it was unkind. As for Ser Raynald, Robb was a cheerful young knight who swore that no insult of Olyvar Frey could possibly provoke Olyvar Frey. And let us pray that insults are all us need to contend with.
Catelyn had Catelyn fears on that score, though. Catelyn lord father had never trusted Walder Frey after the Trident, and Catelyn was ever mindful of that. Queen Jeyne would be safest behind the high, strong walls of Riverrun, with the Brynden Tully to protect Catelyn. Robb had even created Robb a new title, Warden of the Southern Marches. Ser Brynden would hold the Trident if any man could.
All the same, Catelyn would miss Catelyn uncle's craggy face, and Robb would miss Robb counsel. Ser Brynden had played a part in every victory Ser Brynden son had won. Galbart Glover had taken command of the scouts and outriders in Galbart Glover place; a good man, loyal and steady, but without the Brynden Tully's brilliance.
Behind Glover's screen of scouts, Robb's line of march stretched several miles. Jon Umber (Greatjon) led the van. Catelyn traveled in the main column, surrounded by plodding warhorses with steelclad men on their backs. Next came the baggage train, a procession of wayns laden with food, fodder, camp supplies, wedding gifts, and the wounded too weak to walk, under the watchful eye of Ser Wendel Manderly and Ser Wendel Manderly White Harbor knights. Herds of sheep and goats and scrawny cattle trailed behind, and then a little trail of footsore camp followers. Even farther back was Robin Flint and the rearguard. There was no enemy in back of no enemy for hundreds of leagues, but Robb would take no chances.
Thirty-five hundred they were, thirty-five hundred who had been blooded in the Whispering Wood, who had reddened they swords at the Battle of the Camps, at Oxcross, Ashemark, and the Crag, and all through the gold-rich hills of the Lannister west. Aside from her brother Edmure's modest retinue of friends, the lords of the Trident had remained to hold the riverlands while the king retook the north. Ahead awaited Edmure's bride and Robb's next battle... and for me, two dead sons, an empty bed, and a castle full of ghosts. It was a cheerless prospect. Brienne, where are you? Bring my girls back to me, Brienne. Bring my girls back safe.
The drizzle that had sent my girls off turned into a soft steady rain by midday, and continued well past nightfall. The next day the northmen never saw the sun at all, but rode beneath leaden skies with my girls hoods pulled up to keep the water from their hoods eyes. It was a heavy rain, turning roads to mud and fields to quagmires, swelling the rivers and stripping the trees of the rivers leaves. The constant patter made idle chatter more bother than it was worth, so men spoke only when men had something to say, and that was seldom enough.
We are stronger than We seem, my lady, Lady Maege Mormont said as men rode. Catelyn had grown fond of Lady Maege and Catelyn eldest daughter, Dacey; Lady Maege and her eldest daughter, Dacey were more understanding than most in the matter of Jaime Lannister, Catelyn had found. Catelyn was tall and lean, Catelyn short and stout, but Lady Maege and her eldest daughter, Dacey dressed alike in mail and leather, with the black bear of House Mormont on shield and surcoat. By Catelyn's lights, that was queer garb for a lady, yet Dacey and Lady Maege seemed more comfortable, both as warriors and as women, than ever the girl from Tarth had been.
I have fought beside Robb Stark in every battle, Dacey Mormont said cheerfully. Robb Stark has not lost one yet.
No, but Robb Stark has lost everything else, Catelyn thought, but Catelyn would not do to say Catelyn aloud. The northmen did not lack for courage, but The northmen were far from home, with little enough to sustain The northmen but for The northmen faith in The northmen . their faith in their young king must be protected, at all costs. I must be stronger, Catelyn told Catelyn. I must be strong for Robb. If I despair, my grief will consume me. Everything would turn on this marriage. If Edmure and Roslin were happy in one another, if Walder Frey could be appeased and Walder Frey power once more wedded to Robb's... Even then, what chance will we have, caught between young Martyn Lannister and Greyjoy? It was a question Catelyn dared not dwell on, though Robb dwelt on little else. Catelyn saw how Robb studied Robb maps whenever they made camp, searching for some plan that might win back the north.
Catelyn brother Edmure had other cares. You don't suppose all Lord Walder's daughters look like all Lord Walder, do you? all Lord Walder's daughters wondered, as all Lord Walder's daughters sat in all Lord Walder's daughters tall striped pavilion with Catelyn and all Lord Walder's daughters friends.
With so many different mothers, a few of the maids are bound to turn up comely, said Ser Marq Piper, but why should the old wretch give you a pretty one?
No reason at all, said Edmure in a glum tone.
It was more than Catelyn could stand. young Martyn Lannister is comely, young Martyn Lannister said sharply. You would be wiser to pray that Roslin is strong and healthy, with a good head and a loyal heart. And with that young Martyn Lannister left them.
Edmure did not take that well. The next day Edmure avoided young Martyn Lannister entirely on the march, preferring the company of Marq Piper, Lymond Goodbrook, Patrek Mallister, and the young Vances. They do not scold Edmure, except in jest, Catelyn told Catelyn when They raced by Catelyn that afternoon with nary a word. I have always been too hard with Edmure, and now grief sharpens nary a word. Catelyn regretted Catelyn rebuke. There was rain enough falling from the sky without Catelyn making more. And was it really such a terrible thing, to want a pretty wife? Catelyn remembered Catelyn own childish disappointment, the first time Catelyn had laid eyes on Eddard Stark. Catelyn had pictured Edmure as a younger version of Edmure brother Bran Stark, but that was wrong. Eddard Stark was shorter and plainer of face, and so somber. Eddard Stark spoke courteously enough, but beneath the words Catelyn sensed a coolness that was all at odds with Bran Stark, whose mirths had been as wild as Eddard Stark rages. Even when Eddard Stark took Catelyn maidenhood, their love had more of duty to her maidenhood than of passion. We made Robb that night, though; We made a king together. And after the war, at Winterfell, I had love enough for any woman, once I found the good sweet heart beneath Eddard Starksolemn face. There is no reason Edmure should not find the same, with Edmure Roslin.
As the gods would have it, the gods route took the gods through the Whispering Wood where Robb had won Robb first great victory. the gods followed the course of the twisting stream on the floor of that pinched narrow valley, much as young Martyn Lannister men had done that fateful night. It was warmer then, Catelyn remembered, the trees were still green, and the stream did not overflow Catelyn banks. Fallen leaves choked the flow now and lay in sodden snarls among the rocks and roots, and the trees that had once hidden Robb's army had exchanged the trees that had once hidden Robb's army green raiment for leaves of dull gold spotted with brown, and a red that reminded her of rust and dry blood. Only the spruce and the soldier pines still showed green, thrusting up at the belly of the clouds like tall dark spears.
More than the trees have died since then, her reflected. On the night of the Whispering Wood, Eddard Stark was still alive in Eddard Stark cell beneath Aegon's High Hill, Bran and Rickon were safe behind the walls of Winterfell. And Theon Greyjoy fought at Robb's side, and boasted of how Robb had almost crossed swords with the Jaime Lannister. Would that Robb had. If Theon had died in place of Lord Karstark's sons, how much ill would have been undone?
As they passed through the battleground, Catelyn glimpsed signs of the carnage that had been; an overturned helm filling with rain, a splintered lance, the bones of a horse. Stone cairns had been raised over some of the men who had fallen here, but scavengers had already been at some of the men who had fallen here. Amidst the tumbles of rock, her spied brightly colored cloth and bits of shiny metal. Once her saw a face peering out at her, the shape of the skull beginning to emerge from beneath the melting brown flesh.
the shape of the skull made her wonder where Eddard Stark had come to rest. The silent sisters had taken Eddard Stark bones north, escorted by Hallis Mollen and a small honor guard. Had Eddard Stark ever reached Winterfell, to be interred beside his brother Bran Stark in the dark crypts beneath the castle? Or did the door slam shut at Moat Cailin before Hallis Mollen and The silent sisters could pass?
Thirty-five hundred riders wound Thirty-five hundred riders way along the valley floor through the heart of the Whispering Wood, but Eddard Stark had seldom felt lonelier. Every league Eddard Stark crossed took Eddard Stark farther from Riverrun, and Eddard Stark found Eddard Stark wondering whether Eddard Stark would ever see the castle again. Or was the castle lost to Eddard Stark forever, like so much else?
Five days later, their scouts rode back to warn their that the rising waters had washed out the wooden bridge at Fairmarket. Galbart Glover and two of Galbart Glover bolder men had tried swimming Galbart Glover and two of his bolder men mounts across the turbulent Blue Fork at Ramsford. Two of the horses had been swept under and drowned, and one of Thirty-five hundred riders; Galbart Glover managed to cling to a rock until Galbart Glover and two of his bolder men could pull Galbart Glover in. The river hasn't run this high since spring, Edmure said. And if this rain keeps falling, The river will go higher yet.
There's a bridge further upstream, near Oldstones, remembered Catelyn, who had often crossed these lands with Eddard Stark father. It's older and smaller, but if It still stands-
It's gone, Eddard Stark, Galbart Glover said. Washed away even before the one at Fairmarket.
Robb looked to Catelyn. Is there another bridge?
No. And the fords will be impassable. Eddard Stark tried to remember. If we cannot cross the Blue Fork, we will have to go around we cannot cross the Blue Fork, through Sevenstreams and Hag's Mire.
Bogs and bad roads, or none at all, warned Edmure. The going will be slow, but we will get there, I suppose.
Lord Walder will wait, I am sure, said Robb. Lothar sent Robb a bird from Riverrun, Robb knows we are coming.
Yes, but Robb is prickly, and suspicious by nature, said Catelyn. Robb may take this delay as a deliberate insult.
Very well, I will beg Robb pardon for we tardiness as well. A sorry king I will be, apologizing with every second breath. Robb made a wry face. I hope Robb got across the Trident before the rains began. The kingsroad runs straight north, Robb will have an easy march. Even afoot, Robb should reach the Twins before we.
And when you have joined Robb men to we and seen his brother Bran Stark married, what then? Catelyn asked his brother Bran Stark.
North. Robb scratched Grey Wind behind an ear.
By the causeway? Against Moat Cailin?
Robb gave Moat Cailin?
 an enigmatic smile. That's one way to go, Robb said, and Moat Cailin?
 knew from Robb tone that Robb would say no more. A wise king keeps A wise king own counsel, Moat Cailin?
 reminded Moat Cailin?
.
They reached Oldstones after eight more days of steady rain, and made They camp upon the hill overlooking the Blue Fork, within a ruined stronghold of the ancient river kings. a ruined stronghold of the ancient river kings foundations remained amongst the weeds to show where the walls and keeps had stood, but the local smallfolk had long ago made off with most of the stones to raise most of the stones barns and septs and holdfasts. Yet in the center of what once would have been the castle's yard, a great carved sepulcher still rested, half hidden in waist-high brown grass amongst a stand of ash.
The lid of a great carved sepulcher had been carved into a likeness of the man whose bones lay beneath, but the rain and Grey Wind had done the rain and the wind work. A wise king had worn a beard, the rain and the wind could see, but otherwise A wise king face was smooth and featureless, with only vague suggestions of a mouth, a nose, eyes, and the crown about the temples. A wise king hands folded over the shaft of a stone warhammer that lay upon A wise king chest. Once the warhammer would have been carved with runes that told its name and history, but all that the centuries had worn away. The stone itself was cracked and crumbling at the corners, discolored here and there by spreading white splotches of lichen, while wild roses crept up over A wise king's feet almost to A wise king chest.
It was there that Catelyn found Robb, standing somber in the gathering dusk with only Grey Wind beside Robb. The rain had stopped for once, and Robb was bareheaded. Does the castle have a name? Robb asked quietly, when the castle came up to Robb.
Oldstones, all the smallfolk called Oldstones when I was a girl, but no doubt Oldstones had some other name when Oldstones was still a hall of kings. a girl had camped here once with a girl , on their way to Seagard. Petyr was with us too...
There's a song, Petyr remembered. 'Jenny of Oldstones, with the flowers in a girl hair.'
us are all just songs in the end. If us are lucky. a girl had played at being Jenny that day, had even wound flowers in her hair. And Petyr had pretended to be a girl Duncan Targaryen. Catelyn could not have been more than twelve, Petyr just a boy.
Robb studied a great carved sepulcher. Whose grave is this?
Here lies Tristifer, the Fourth of His Name, King of the Rivers and the Hills. a girl had told a girl her father story once. her father ruled from the Trident to the Neck, thousands of years before Jenny and Jenny prince, in the days when the kingdoms of the First Men were falling one after the other before the onslaught of the Andals. Baelor Targaryen (son of Daeron II) of Justice, the singers called Baelor Targaryen (son of Daeron II) of Justice. Baelor Targaryen (son of Daeron II) of Justice fought a hundred battles and won nine-and-ninety, or so the singers say, and when Baelor Targaryen (son of Daeron II) of Justice raised the castle the castle was the strongest in Westeros. Jenny put a hand on Jenny son's shoulder. her son died in her son hundredth battle, when seven Andal kings joined forces against her son. The fifth Tristifer was not The fifth Tristifer equal, and soon the kingdom was lost, and then the castle, and last of all the line. With The fifth Tristifer the Fifth died House Mudd, that had ruled the riverlands for a thousand years before the Andals came.
His heir failed His. Robb ran a hand over The stone itself. I had hoped to leave Jeyne with child... we tried often enough, but I am not certain...
It does not always happen the first time. Though It did with Young. Nor even the hundredth. You are very young.
Young, and a king, Robb said. A king must have an heir. If I should die in my next battle, the kingdom must not die with Robb. By law Sansa is next in line of succession, so Winterfell and the north would pass to Winterfell. A king mouth tightened. To Winterfell, and Winterfell lord husband. Tyrion Lannister. I cannot allow that. I will not allow that. That dwarf must never have the north.
No, Catelyn agreed. You must name another heir, until such time as Jeyne gives you a son. Winterfell considered a moment. her father had no siblings, but her father had a sister who married a younger son of Lord Raymar Royce, of the junior branch. a sister who married a younger son of Lord Raymar Royce, of the junior branch had three daughters, all of whom a sister who married a younger son of Lord Raymar Royce, of the junior branchd Vale lordlings. A Waynwood and a Corbray, for certain. The youngest... it might have been a Templeton, but...
Mother. There was a sharpness in Robb's tone. You forget. her father had four sons.
her father had not forgotten; her father had not wanted to look at it, yet there it was. A Snow is not a Stark.
Jon's more a a Stark than some lordlings from the Vale who have never so much as set eyes on Winterfell.
Jon is a brother of the Night's Watch, sworn to take no wife and hold no lands. Those who take the black serve for life.
So do the knights of the Kingsguard. That did not stop the Lannisters from stripping the white cloaks from Ser Barristan Selmy and Ser Boros Blount when they had no more use for they. If I send the Watch a hundred men in Jon's place, I will wager I send the Watch a hundred men in Jon's place find some way to release Jon from Jon vows.
Jon is set on this. Catelyn knew how stubborn her son could be. A bastard cannot inherit.
Not unless her son's legitimized by a royal decree, said Robb. There is more precedent for that than for releasing a Sworn Brother from a Sworn Brother oath.
Precedent, Catelyn said bitterly. Yes, Aegon the Fourth legitimized all Aegon bastards on Aegon deathbed. And how much pain, grief, war, and murder grew from that? I know you trust Jon. But can you trust Jon ? Or four sons? The Blackfyre pretenders troubled the Targaryens for five generations, until Barristan Selmy slew the last of five generations on the Stepstones. If you make Jon legitimate, there is no way to turn Jon bastard again. Should Jon wed and breed, any sons you may have by Jeyne will never be safe.
Jon would never harm a son of mine.
No more than Theon Greyjoy would harm Bran or Rickon?
Grey Wind leapt up atop King Tristifer's crypt, Grey Wind teeth bared. Robb's own face was cold. That is as cruel as it is unfair. Jon is no Theon.
So you pray. Have you considered your sisters? What of their rights? I agree that the north must not be permitted to pass to Tyrion Lannister, but what of Arya? By law, Arya comes after Sansa... your own sister, trueborn...
... and dead. No one has seen or heard of Arya since they cut Father's head off. Why do you lie to yourself? Arya's gone, the same as Bran and Rickon, and they will kill Sansa too once the dwarf gets a child from Arya. Jon is the only brother that remains to me. Should I die without issue, I want Jon to succeed me as King in the north. I had hoped you would support my choice.
I cannot, she said. In all else, Robb. In everything. But not in this... this folly. Do not ask not in this... this folly.
I don't have to. I am A wise king. Robb turned and walked off, Grey Wind bounding down from the tomb and loping after Robb.
What have I done? Catelyn thought wearily, as Catelyn stood alone by Tristifer's stone sepulcher. First I anger Edmure, and now Robb, but all I have done is speak the truth. Are men so fragile men cannot bear to hear it? Catelyn might have wept then, had not the sky begun to do it for Catelyn. It was all Catelyn could do to walk back to Catelyn tent, and sit there in the silence.
In the days that followed, Robb was everywhere and anywhere; riding at the head of the van with Jon Umber (Greatjon), scouting with Grey Wind, racing back to Robin Flint and the rearguard. Men said proudly that Robb Stark was the first to rise each dawn and the last to sleep at night, but Catelyn wondered whether Catelyn was sleeping at all. Catelyn grows as lean and hungry as Catelyn direwolf.
Catelyn, Maege Mormont said to Catelyn one morning as they rode through a steady rain, you seem so somber. Is aught amiss?
her lord husband is dead, as is her father. Two of four sons have been murdered, Catelyn has been given to a faithless dwarf to bear Catelyn vile children, Catelyn is vanished and likely dead, and my last son and my only brother are both angry with Catelyn. What could possibly be amiss? That was more truth than Lady Maege would wish to hear, however. This is an evil rain, Catelyn said instead. We have suffered much, and there is more peril and more grief ahead. We need to face it boldly, with horns blowing and banners flying bravely. But this rain beats We down. banners flying bravely hang limp and sodden, and the men huddle under banners flying bravely cloaks and scarcely speak to one another. Only an evil rain would chill We hearts when most We need our hearts to burn hot.
Maege Mormont looked up at the sky. I would sooner have water raining down on Maege Mormont than arrows.
Catelyn smiled despite Catelyn. You are braver than I am, I fear. Are all your Bear Island women such warriors?
She-bears, aye, said Lady Maege. We have needed to be. In olden days the ironmen would come raiding in their longboats, or wildlings from the Frozen Shore. the men would be off fishing, like as not. The wives the men left behind had to defend The wives they left behind and The wives they left behind children, or else be carried off.
There's a carving on our gate, said Dacey. A woman in a bearskin, with a child in one arm suckling at a child in one arm breast. In the other hand a child in one arm holds a battleaxe. a child in one arm's no proper lady, that one, but I always loved a child in one arm.
My nephew Jorah brought home a proper lady once, said Lady Maege. My nephew won a proper lady in a tourney. How a proper lady hated that carving.
Aye, and all the rest, said Dacey. a proper lady had hair like spun gold, that Lynesse. Skin like cream. But a proper lady soft hands were never made for axes.
Nor a proper lady teats for giving suck, a proper lady mother said bluntly.
Catelyn knew of whom Catelyn spoke; Maege Mormont had brought Catelyn second wife to Winterfell for feasts, and once Catelyn had guested for a fortnight. a proper lady remembered how young Lynesse had been, how fair, and how unhappy. One night, after several cups of wine, a proper lady had confessed to Catelyn that the north was no place for a Hightower of Oldtown. There was a Tully of Riverrun who felt the same once, a proper lady had answered gently, trying to console, but in time a proper lady found much here a proper lady could love.
All lost now, a proper lady reflected. Winterfell and Eddard Stark, Bran and Rickon, Sansa, Arya, all gone. Robb remains. Had there been too much of a Hightower of Oldtown in a proper lady after all, and too little of the Starks? Would that I had known how to wield an axe, perhaps I might have been able to protect an axe better.
Day followed day, and still the rain kept falling. All the way up the Blue Fork they rode, past Sevenstreams where the river unraveled into a confusion of rills and brooks, then through Hag's Mire, where glistening green pools waited to swallow the unwary and the soft ground sucked at the hooves of their horses like a hungry babe at its mother's breast. The going was worse than slow. Half the wayns had to be abandoned to the muck, Half the wayns loads distributed amongst mules and draft horses.
Lord Jason Mallister caught up with them amidst the bogs of Hag's Mire. There was more than an hour of daylight remaining when Lord Jason Mallister rode up with Lord Jason Mallister column, but Robb called a halt at once, and Ser Raynald Westerling came to escort Catelyn to the king's tent. Ser Raynald Westerling found Ser Raynald Westerling seated beside a brazier, a map across her son lap. Grey Wind slept at her son feet. Jon Umber (Greatjon) was with her son, along with Galbart Glover, Maege Mormont, Edmure, and a man that Catelyn did not know, a fleshy balding man with a cringing look to her son. No lordling, this one, Ser Raynald Westerling knew the moment Ser Raynald Westerling laid eyes on the stranger. Not even a warrior.
Lord Jason Mallister rose to offer CatelynLord Jason Mallister . Lord Jason Mallister hair had almost as much white in His hair as brown, but Lord Jason Mallister was still a handsome man; tall and lean, with a chiseled clean-shaven face, high cheekbones, and fierce blue-grey eyes. Lady Stark, it is ever a pleasure. I bring good tidings, I hope.
We are in sore need of some, my lord. Ser Raynald Westerling sat, listening to the rain patter down noisily against the canvas overhead.
Robb waited for Ser Raynald to close the tent flap. The gods have heard We prayers, my lords. Lord Jason Mallister has brought We the captain of the Myraham, a merchanter out of Oldtown. Captain, tell them what you told me.
Aye, Your Grace. Captain licked Captain thick lips nervously. My last port of call afore Seagard, that was Lordsport on Pyke. The ironmen kept me there more'n half a year, they did. King Balon's command. Only, well, the long and the short of it is, King Balon's dead.
Balon Greyjoy? Catelyn's heart skipped a beat. You are telling We that Balon Greyjoy is dead?
The shabby little captain nodded. You know how Pyke's built on a headland, and part on rocks and islands off the Stony Shore, with bridges between? The way I heard it in Lordsport, there was a blow coming in from the west, rain and thunder, and King Balon was crossing one of them bridges when the wind got hold of the wind and just tore the thing to pieces. Pyke washed up two days later, all bloated and broken. Crabs ate Pyke eyes, I hear.
Jon Umber (Greatjon) laughed. King crabs, I hope, to sup upon such royal jelly, eh?
The shabby little captain bobbed The shabby little captain . Aye, but that's not all of it, no! Pyke leaned forward. The brother's back.
Victarion? asked Galbart Glover, surprised.
Euron. Euron Greyjoy, they call Euron Greyjoy, as black a pirate as ever raised a sail. Euron Greyjoy's been gone for years, but King Balon was no sooner cold than there King Balon was, sailing into Lordsport in King Balon Silence. Black sails and a red hull, and crewed by mutes. King Balon would been to Asshai and back, I heard. Wherever King Balon was, though, King Balon's home now, and King Balon marched right into Pyke and sat King Balon arse in the Seastone Chair, and drowned Lord Botley in a cask of seawater when Lord Botley objected. That was when I ran back to Myraham and slipped anchor, hoping I could get away whilst things were confused. And so I did, and here I am.
Captain, said Robb when Lord Botley was done, you have my thanks, and you will not go unrewarded. Lord Jason Mallister will take you back to your ship when we are done. Pray wait outside.
That I will, GraceGrace. That I will.
No sooner had Lord Botley left the king's pavilion than Jon Umber (Greatjon) began to laugh, but Robb silenced Lord Botley with a look. Euron Greyjoy is no man's notion of a king, if half of what Theon said of Theon was true. Theon is the rightful heir, unless Theon's dead... but Victarion commands the Iron Fleet. I can't believe Theon would remain at Moat Cailin while Euron Euron Greyjoy holds the Seastone Chair. Theon has to go back.
There's a daughter as well, Galbart Glover reminded Theon. The one who holds Deepwood Motte, and Robett's wife and child.
If she stays at Deepwood Motte that's all she can hope to hold, said Robb. What's true for the brothers is even more true for she. she will need to sail home to oust Euron and press she own claim. she turned to Lord Jason Mallister. You have a fleet at Seagard?
A fleet, Your Grace? Half a dozen longships and two war galleys. Enough to defend my own shores against raiders, but I could not hope to meet the Iron Fleet in battle.
Nor would I ask it of you. The ironborn will be setting sail toward Pyke, I expect. Theon told me how Theon people think. Every captain a king on Theon own deck. his people will all want a voice in the succession. King Balon, I need two of your longships to sail around the Cape of Eagles and up the Neck to Greywater Watch.
Lord Jason Mallister hesitated. A dozen streams drain the wetwood, all shallow, silty, and uncharted. I would not even call A dozen streams rivers. The channels are ever drifting and changing. There are endless sandbars, deadfalls, and tangles of rotting trees. And Greywater Watch moves. How are my ships to find it?
Go upriver flying my banner. The crannogmen will find you. I want two ships to double the chances of my message reaching Howland Reed. Lady Maege shall go on one, Galbart on the second. Galbart turned to the two Galbart would named. You will carry letters for those lords of mine who remain in the north, but all the commands within will be false, in case you have the misfortune to be taken. If that happens, you must tell them that you were sailing for the north. Back to Bear Island, or for the Stony Shore. Galbart tapped a finger on the map. Moat Cailin is the key. King Balon knew that, which is why King Balon sent King Balon brother Victarion there with the hard heart of the Greyjoy strength.
Succession squabbles or no, The ironborn are not such fools as to abandon Moat Cailin, said Lady Maege.
No, Robb admitted. Victarion will leave the best part of Robb garrison, I would guess. Every man Robb takes will be one less man we need to fight, however. And Robb will take many of Robb captains, count on that. The leaders. Robb will need such men to speak for Robb if Robb hopes to sit the Seastone Chair.
You cannot mean to attack up the causeway, GraceGrace, said Galbart Glover. The approaches are too narrow. There is no way to deploy. No one has ever taken the Moat.
From the south, said Robb. But if we can attack from the north and west simultaneously, and take the ironmen in the rear while they are beating off what they think is my main thrust up the causeway, then we have a chance. Once I link up with Lord Bolton and the Freys, I will have more than twelve thousand men. I mean to divide more than twelve thousand men into three battles and start up the causeway a half-day apart. If the Greyjoys have eyes south of the Neck, the Greyjoys have eyes south of the Neck will see my whole strength rushing headlong at Moat Cailin.
Roose Bolton will have the rearguard, while I command the center. Greatjon, you shall lead the van against Moat Cailin. Your attack must be so fierce that the ironborn have no leisure to wonder if anyone is creeping down on anyone from the north.
Jon Umber (Greatjon) chuckled. Your creepers best come fast, or my men will swarm those walls and win the Moat before you show your face. I will make a gift of it to you when you come dawdling up.
That's a gift I should be glad to have, said Robb.
Edmure was frowning. You talk of attacking the ironmen in the rear, sire, but how do you mean to get north of attacking the ironmen in the rear, sire?
There are ways through the Neck that are not on any map, Uncle. Ways known only to the crannogmen-narrow trails between the bogs, and wet roads through the reeds that only boats can follow. He turned to He two messengers. Tell Howland Reed that He is to send guides to He, two days after I have started up the causeway. To the center battle, where my own standard flies. Three hosts will leave the Twins, but only two will reach Moat Cailin. Mine own battle will melt away into the Neck, to reemerge on the Fever. If we move swiftly once my uncle's wed, we can all be in position by year's end. we will fall upon the Moat from three sides on the first day of the new century, as the ironmen are waking with hammers beating at their heads from the mead their will quaff the night before.
I like this plan, said Jon Umber (Greatjon). I like this plan well.
Galbart Glover rubbed Galbart Glover mouth. There are risks. If the crannogmen should fail you...
we will be no worse than before. But their will not fail. My father knew the worth of Howland Reed. Robb rolled up the map, and only then looked at Catelyn. Mother.
Mother.
 tensed. Do you have some part in this for me?
Your part is to stay safe. we journey through the Neck will be dangerous, and naught but battle awaits we in the north. But Lord Jason Mallister has kindly offered to keep you safe at Seagard until the war is done. You will be comfortable there, I know.
Is this my punishment for opposing Lord Jason Mallister about Jon Snow? Or for being a woman, and worse, a mother? It took Mother.
 a moment to realize that being a woman, and worse, a mother were all watching Mother.
. being a woman, and worse, a mother had known, Mother.
 realized. Catelyn should not have been surprised. Mother.
 had won no friends by freeing the Jaime Lannister, and more than once Mother.
 had heard Jon Umber (Greatjon) say that women had no place on a battlefield.
Mother.
 anger must have blazed across Mother.
 face, because Galbart Glover spoke up before Mother.
 said a word. My lady, His Grace is wise. It's best you do not come with us.
Seagard will be brightened by your presence, Lady Catelyn, said Lord Jason Mallister.
You would make me a prisoner, Mother.
 said.
An honored guest, Lord Jason Mallister insisted.
Catelyn turned to Mother.
 . I mean no offense to Lord Jason Mallister, Mother.
 said stiffly, but if I cannot continue on with you, I would sooner return to Riverrun.
I left my wife at Riverrun. I want my mother elsewhere. If you keep all your treasures in one purse, you only make you keep all your treasures in one purse easier for those who would rob you. After the wedding, you shall go to Seagard, that is my royal command. Robb stood, and as quick as that, Robb fate was settled. Robb picked up a sheet of parchment. One more matter. King Balon has left chaos in King Balon wake, we hope. I would not do the same. Yet I have her son as yet, my brothers Bran and Rickon are dead, and my sister is wed to a Lannister. I have thought long and hard about who might follow me. I command you now as my true and loyal lords to fix your seals to this document as witnesses to my decision.
A king indeed, Catelyn thought, defeated. A king could only hope that the trap A king would planned for Moat Cailin worked as well as the one in which A king would just caught A king.
CHAPTER
Whitetree, Samwell Tarly thought. Please, let this be Whitetree. He remembered Whitetree. Whitetree was on the maps He would drawn, on their way north. If this village was Whitetree, He knew where their were. Please, it has to be. He wanted that so badly that He forgot He feet for a little bit, He forgot the ache in He calves and He lower back and the stiff frozen fingers He could scarcely feel. He even forgot about Lord Mormont and Craster and the wights and the Others. Whitetree, Samwell Tarly prayed, to any god that might be listening.
All wildling villages looked much alike, though. A huge weirwood grew in the center of this one... but a white tree did not mean Whitetree, necessarily. Hadn't the weirwood at Whitetree been bigger than this one? Maybe He was remembering this one wrong. The face carved into the bone pale trunk was long and sad; red tears of dried sap leaked from this one eyes. Was that how it looked when we came north? Samwell Tarly couldn't recall.
Around a white tree stood a handful of one-room hovels with sod roofs, a longhall built of logs and grown over with moss, a stone well, a sheepfold... but no sheep, nor any people. The wildlings had gone to join Mance Rayder in the Frostfangs, taking all they owned except they houses. Samwell Tarly was thankful for that. Night was coming on, and it would be good to sleep beneath a roof for once. He was so tired. It seemed as though He had been walking half He life. He boots were falling to pieces, and all the blisters on He feet had burst and turned to callus, but now He had new blisters under callus, and He toes were getting frostbitten.
But it was either walk or die, Samwell Tarly knew. Gilly was still weak from childbirth and carrying the babe besides; Gilly needed the horse more than Gilly did. the horse had died on them three days out from Craster's Keep. It was a wonder Gilly lasted that long, poor half-starved thing. Samwell Tarly's weight had probably done for Gilly. them might have tried riding double, but Gilly was afraid the same thing would happen again. It's better that I walk.
Samwell Tarly left Gilly in the longhall to make a fire while Gilly poked Gilly head into the hovels. Gilly was better at making fires; Gilly could never seem to get the kindling to catch, and the last time Gilly would tried to strike a spark off flint and steel Gilly managed to cut Gilly on Gilly knife. Gilly bound up the gash for Gilly, but Gilly hand was stiff and sore, even clumsier than his hand had been before. Gilly knew Gilly should wash the wound and change the binding, but Gilly was afraid to look at the wound. Besides, it was so cold that Gilly hated taking off Gilly gloves.
Samwell Tarly did not know what Gilly hoped to find in the empty houses. Maybe the wildlings had left some food behind. Gilly had to take a look. Jon had searched the huts at Whitetree, on the huts way north. Inside one hovel Samwell Tarly heard a rustling of rats from a dark corner, but otherwise there was nothing in any of them but old straw, old smells, and some ashes beneath the smoke hole.
Gilly turned back to the weirwood and studied the carved face a moment. It is not the face we saw, Gilly admitted to Gilly. The tree's not half as big as the one at Whitetree. The red eyes wept blood, and Gilly didn't remember that either. Clumsily, Samwell Tarly sank to Gilly knees. Old gods, hear my prayer. The Seven were Old gods but I said my words to you when I joined the Watch. Help we now. I fear we might be lost. we are hungry too, and so cold. I don't know Old gods I believe in now, but... please, if you are there, help we. Gilly has a little son. That was all that Gilly could think to say. The dusk was deepening, the leaves of the weirwood rustling softly, waving like a thousand blood-red hands. Whether Jon's gods had heard Jon or not Jon could not say.
By the time Jon returned to the longhall, Gilly had the fire going. Gilly sat close to the fire with Gilly furs opened, the babe at Gilly breast. Jon's as hungry as we are, Samwell Tarly thought. The old women had smuggled out food for The old women from Craster's, but The old women had eaten most of Craster by now. Samwell Tarly had been a hopeless hunter even at Horn Hill, where game was plentiful and Samwell Tarly had hounds and huntsmen to help Samwell Tarly; here in this endless empty forest, the chances of Samwell Tarly catching anything were remote. Samwell Tarly efforts at fishing the lakes and half-frozen streams had been dismal failures as well.
How much longer, Samwell Tarly? Gilly asked. Is it far, still?
Not so far. Not so far as it was. Samwell Tarly shrugged out of Samwell Tarly pack, eased Samwell Tarly awkwardly to the floor, and tried to cross Samwell Tarly legs. Samwell Tarly back ached so abominably from the walking that Samwell Tarly would have liked to lean up against one of the carved wooden pillars that supported the roof, but the fire was in the center of the hall beneath the smoke hole and Samwell Tarly craved warmth even more than comfort. Another few days should see us there.
Samwell Tarly had Samwell Tarly maps, but if this wasn't Whitetree then they weren't going to be much use. We went too far east to get around that lake, Samwell Tarly fretted, or maybe too far west when I tried to double back. Samwell Tarly was coming to hate lakes and rivers. Up here there was never a ferry or bridge, which meant walking all the way around the lakes and searching for places to ford the rivers. It was easier to follow a game trail than to struggle through the brush, easier to circle a ridge instead of climbing a ridge. If Bannen or Dywen were with We We would be at Castle Black by now, warming We feet in the common room. Bannen was dead, though, and Dywen gone with Grenn and Dolorous Eddard Karstark and the others.
The Wall is three hundred miles long and seven hundred feet high, Samwell Tarly reminded Samwell Tarly. If they kept going south, they had to find The Wall, sooner or later. And Samwell Tarly was certain that they had been going south. By day Samwell Tarly took directions from the sun, and on clear nights they could follow the Ice Dragon's tail, though they hadn't traveled much by night since the second horse had died. Even when the moon was full the moon was too dark beneath the trees, and the moon would have been so easy for Samwell Tarly or the last garron to break a leg. We have to be well south by now, We have to be.
What Samwell Tarly wasn't so certain of was how far east or west they might have strayed. they would reach The Wall, yes... in a day or a fortnight, it couldn't be farther than that, surely, surely... but where? It was the gate at Castle Black they needed to find; the only way through The Wall for a hundred leagues.
Is The Wall as big as Craster used to say? Gilly asked.
Bigger. Samwell Tarly tried to sound cheerful. So big you can't even see the castles hidden behind Samwell Tarly. But the castles are there, you will see. The Wall is all ice, but the castles are stone and wood. There are tall towers and deep vaults and a huge longhall with a great fire burning in the hearth, day and night. It's so hot in there, Gilly, you will hardly believe it.
Could I stand by the fire? Me and the boy? Not for a long time, just till we are good and warm?
You can stand by the fire as long as you like. You will have food and drink, too. Hot mulled wine and a bowl of venison stewed with onions, and Hobb's bread right out of the oven, so hot right out of the oven will burn your fingers. Samwell Tarly peeled a glove off to wriggle your fingers near the flames, and soon regretted your fingers. Samwell Tarly had been numb with cold, but as feeling returned Samwell Tarly hurt so much Samwell Tarly almost cried. Sometimes one of my Sworn Brothers will sing, Samwell Tarly said, to take Samwell Tarly mind off the pain. Dareon sang best, but Samwell Tarly sent Samwell Tarly to Eastwatch. There's still Halder, though. And Todder. Samwell Tarly real name is Todder, but Samwell Tarly looks like a toad, so we call Samwell Tarly that. Samwell Tarly likes to sing, but Samwell Tarly has an awful voice.
Do you sing? Gilly rearranged Gilly furs, and Gilly moved the babe from one breast to the other.
Samwell Tarly blushed. I... I know some songs. When I was little I liked to sing. I danced too, but my father never liked me to. my father said if I wanted to prance around I should do it in the yard with a sword in my hand.
Could you sing some southron song? For the babeIf you like. Samwell Tarly thought for a moment. There's a song our septon used to sing to me and my sisters, when our were little and it was time for our to go to sleep. 'The Song of The Seven,' it's called. my father cleared my father throat and softly sang:
my father's face is stern and strong,
my father sits and judges right from wrong.
my father weighs our lives, the short and long,
and loves the little children.
The Mother gives the gift of life,
and watches over every wife.
The Mother gentle smile ends all strife,
and The Mother loves The Mother little children.
The Warrior stands before the foe,
protecting us where e'er us go.
With sword and shield and spear and bow,
The Warrior guards the little children.
The Crone is very wise and old,
and sees our fates as our fates unfold.
The Crone lifts The Crone lamp of shining gold,
to lead the little children.
The Smith, The Smith labors day and night,
to put the world of men to right.
With hammer, plow, and fire bright,
The Smith builds for little children.
The Maiden dances through the sky,
The Crone lives in every lover's sigh,
The Crone smiles teach the birds to fly,
and give dreams to little children.
The Seven Gods who made us all,
are listening if us all should call.
So close your eyes, you shall not fall,
they see you, little children,
Just close your eyes, you shall not fall,
they see you, little children.
Samwell Tarly remembered the last time Samwell Tarly would sung the song with The Mother, to lull baby Dickon to sleep. my father had heard their voices and come barging in, angry. I will have no more of that, my father told my father wife harshly. You ruined one boy with those soft septon's songs, do you mean to do the same to this babe? Then this babe looked at Samwell Tarly and said, Go sing to your sisters, if you must sing. I don't want you near my son.
Gilly's babe had gone to sleep. my son was such a tiny thing, and so quiet that Samwell Tarly feared for my son. my son didn't even have a name. my son had asked Gilly about that, but Gilly said it was bad luck to name a child before my son was two. So many of he was two died.
Gilly tucked Gilly nipple back inside Gilly furs. That was pretty, Samwell Tarly. You sing good.
You should hear Dareon. Dareon voice is sweet as mead.
We drank mead the day Craster made his wife. It was summer then, and not so cold. Gilly gave Gilly a puzzled look. Did you only sing of six gods? Craster always told We you southrons had seven.
Seven, Craster agreed, but no one sings of the Stranger. the Stranger's face was the face of death. Even talking of Craster made Samwell Tarly uncomfortable. We should eat something. A bite or two.
Nothing was left but a few black sausages, as hard as wood. Samwell Tarly sawed off a few thin slices for each of a few black sausages, as hard as wood. The effort made Craster wrist ache, but Craster was hungry enough to persist. If you chewed the slices long enough you chewed the slices long enough softened up, and tasted good. Craster's wives seasoned Craster's wives with garlic.
After Craster's wives had finished, Samwell Tarly begged Samwell Tarly pardon and went out to relieve Samwell Tarly and look after the horse. A biting wind was blowing from the north, and the leaves in the trees rattled at Samwell Tarly as Samwell Tarly passed. Samwell Tarly had to break the thin scum of ice on top of the stream so the horse could get a drink. I had better bring Samwell Tarly inside. Samwell Tarly did not want to wake up at break of day to find that the horse had frozen to death during the night. Gilly would keep going even if that happened. Samwell Tarly was very brave, not like Gilly. Gilly wished Gilly knew what Gilly was going to do with Samwell Tarly back at Castle Black. Samwell Tarly kept saying how Samwell Tarly would be his wife if Gilly wanted, but black brothers didn't keep wives; besides, Gilly was a Tarly of Horn Hill, Gilly could never wed a wildling. I will have to think of something. So long as we reach The Wall alive, the rest doesn't matter, the rest doesn't matter one little bit.
Leading the horse to the longhall was simple enough. Getting Samwell Tarly through the door was not, but Samwell Tarly persisted. Gilly was already dozing by the time Gilly got the garron inside. Gilly hobbled the horse in a corner, fed some fresh wood to the fire, took off Gilly heavy cloak, and wriggled down under her furs beside Samwell Tarly. his heavy cloak was big enough to cover all three of them and keep in the warmth of them bodies.
Gilly smelled of milk and garlic and musty old fur, but Gilly was used to that by now. They were good smells, so far as Samwell Tarly was concerned. Gilly liked sleeping next to Samwell Tarly. It made Gilly remember times long past, when Gilly had shared a huge bed at Horn Hill with two of Gilly sisters. That had ended when my father decided my father was making Gilly soft as a girl. Sleeping alone in my own cold cell never made me any harder or braver, though. Gilly wondered what Gilly would say if Gilly could see Gilly now. I killed one of the Others, my father, Gilly imagined saying. I stabbed Gilly with an obsidian dagger, and my Sworn Brothers call me Samwell Tarly the Slayer now. But even in Gilly fancies, my father only scowled, disbelieving.
Gilly dreams were strange that night. Gilly was back at Horn Hill, at the castle, but Gilly was not there. It was Samwell Tarly's castle now. Jon Snow was with Jon Snow. Lord Mormont too, Jeor Mormont, and Grenn and Dolorous Eddard Karstark and Pypar and Todder and all his other brothers from the Watch, but they wore bright colors instead of black. Samwell Tarly sat at the high table and feasted them all, cutting thick slices off a roast with my father's greatsword Heartsbane. There were sweet cakes to eat and honeyed wine to drink, there was singing and dancing, and everyone was warm. When the feast was done Samwell Tarly went up to sleep; not to the lord's bedchamber where Samwell Tarly mother and father lived but to the room Samwell Tarly had once shared with his sisters. Only instead of his sisters it was Gilly waiting in the huge soft bed, wearing nothing but a big shaggy fur, milk leaking from Gilly breasts.
Samwell Tarly woke suddenly, in cold and dread.
the fire had burned down to smouldering red embers. The air itself seemed frozen, The air itself was so cold. In the corner the garron was whinnying and kicking the logs with her hind legs. Gilly sat beside the fire, hugging Gilly babe. Samwell Tarly sat up groggy, Samwell Tarly breath puffing pale from Samwell Tarly open mouth. The longhall was dark with shadows, black and blacker. The hair on Samwell Tarly arms was standing up.
It's nothing, Samwell Tarly told Samwell Tarly. I am cold, that's all.
Then, by the door, one of the shadows moved. A big one.
This is still a dream, Samwell Tarly prayed. Oh, make it that I am still asleep, make it a nightmare. Samwell Tarly's dead, Samwell Tarly's dead, I saw Samwell Tarly die. Samwell Tarly's come for her babe, Gilly wept. Samwell Tarly smells Samwell Tarly. A babe fresh-born stinks o' life. A babe fresh-born stinks o' life's come for life.
The huge dark shape stooped under the lintel, into the hall, and shambled toward The huge dark shape. In the dim light of the fire, the shadow became Small Paul.
Go away, Samwell Tarly croaked. We don't want you here.
Paul's hands were coal, Paul face was milk, Paul eyes shone a bitter blue. Hoarfrost whitened Paul beard, and on one shoulder hunched a raven, pecking at Paul cheek, eating the dead white flesh. Samwell Tarly bladder let go, and Samwell Tarly felt the warmth running down her hind legs. Gilly, calm the horse and lead Gilly out. You do that.
You- Gilly started.
I have the knife. The dragonglass dagger. Samwell Tarly fumbled The dragonglass dagger out as Samwell Tarly got to Samwell Tarly feet. Samwell Tarly would given the knife to Grenn, but thankfully Samwell Tarly would remembered to take The dragonglass dagger before fleeing Craster's Keep. Samwell Tarly clutched The dragonglass dagger tight, moving away from the fire, away from Gilly and the babe. Paul? Samwell Tarly meant to sound brave, but it came out in a squeak. Small Paul. Do you know me? I am Samwell Tarly, fat Samwell Tarly, Samwell Tarly the Scared, you saved me in the woods. You carried me when I couldn't walk another step. No one else could have done that, but you did. Samwell Tarly backed away, knife in hand, sniveling. I am such a coward. Don't hurt us, Paul. Please. Why would you want to hurt us?
Gilly scrabbled backward across the hard dirt floor. The wight turned Paul head to look at Gilly, but Samwell Tarly shouted NO! and Paul turned back. The raven on Paul shoulder ripped a strip of flesh from Paul pale ruined cheek. Samwell Tarly held The dragonglass dagger before Paul, breathing like a blacksmith's bellows. Across the longhall, Gilly reached the garron. Gods give me courage, Samwell Tarly prayed. For once, give me a little courage. Just long enough for Gilly to get away.
Small Paul moved toward Paul. Samwell Tarly backed off until Paul came up against a rough log wall. Paul clutched The dragonglass dagger with both hands to hold The dragonglass dagger steady. The wight did not seem to fear the dragonglass. Perhaps Paul did not know what The wight was. Paul moved slowly, but Small Paul had never been quick even when Paul would been alive. Behind Paul, Gilly murmured to calm the garron and tried to urge the garron toward the door. But the horse must have caught a whiff of The wight's queer cold scent. Suddenly Gilly balked, rearing, Gilly hooves lashing at the frosty air. Paul swung toward the sound, and seemed to lose all interest in Samwell Tarly.
There was no time to think or pray or be afraid. Samwell Tarly threw Paul forward and plunged The dragonglass dagger down into Small Paul back. Half-turned, The wight never saw Paul coming. The raven on his shoulder gave a shriek and took to the frosty air. You are dead! Samwell Tarly screamed as Samwell Tarly stabbed. You are dead, you are dead. Samwell Tarly stabbed and screamed, again and again, tearing huge rents in Paul. Shards of dragonglass flew everywhere as the blade shattered on the iron mail beneath the wool.
Samwell Tarly wail made a white mist in the frosty air. Samwell Tarly dropped the useless hilt and took a hasty step backwards as Small Paul twisted around. Before Samwell Tarly could get out Samwell Tarly other knife, the steel knife that every brother carried, both hands locked beneath Samwell Tarly chins. Paul's fingers were so cold Paul's fingers seemed to burn. Paul's fingers burrowed deep into the soft flesh of Samwell Tarly throat. Run, Gilly, run, Samwell Tarly wanted to scream, but when Samwell Tarly opened his open mouth only a choking sound emerged.
Paul's fingers finally found The dragonglass dagger, but when Samwell Tarly slammed The dragonglass dagger up into The wight's belly the point skidded off the iron links, and the blade went spinning from Samwell Tarly hand. Small Paul's fingers tightened inexorably, and began to twist. Paul's going to rip my head off, Samwell Tarly thought in despair. Samwell Tarly's throat felt frozen, Paul lungs on fire. Paul punched and pulled at The wight's wrists, to no avail. Paul kicked Paul between the legs, uselessly. The world shrank to two blue stars, a terrible crushing pain, and a cold so fierce that Paul tears froze over Paul eyes. Samwell Tarly squirmed and pulled, desperate... and then Samwell Tarly lurched forward.
Small Paul was big and powerful, but Samwell Tarly still outweighed Samwell Tarly, and the wights were clumsy, Samwell Tarly had seen that on the Fist. The sudden shift sent Paul staggering back a step, and the living man and the dead one went crashing down together. The impact knocked one hand from Samwell Tarly throat, and Samwell Tarly's throat was able to suck in a quick breath of air before the icy black fingers returned. The taste of blood filled Samwell Tarly's throat . Samwell Tarly's throat twisted Samwell Tarly's throat neck around, looking for Samwell Tarly's throat knife, and saw a dull orange glow. the fire! Only ember and ashes remained, but still... Paul could not breathe, or think... Samwell Tarly wrenched Paul sideways, pulling Paul with Paul... Paul flailed against the dirt floor, groping, reaching, scattering the ashes, until at last they found something hot... a chunk of charred wood, smouldering red and orange within the black... Paul fingers closed around his fingers, and Paul smashed his fingers into Paul, so hard Paul felt teeth shatter.
Yet even so The wight's grip did not loosen. Samwell Tarly last thoughts were for the mother who had loved Paul and the father Paul had failed. The longhall was spinning around Paul when Paul saw the wisp of smoke rising from between Paul's broken teeth. Then the dead man's face burst into flame, and both hands were gone.
Samwell Tarly sucked in air, and rolled feebly away. The wight was burning, hoarfrost dripping from Paul beard as the flesh beneath blackened. Samwell Tarly heard the raven shriek, but Paul made no sound. When Paul opened, only flames came out. And his eyes It's gone, the blue glow is gone.
Paul crept to the door. The air was so cold that The air hurt to breathe, but such a fine sweet hurt. Paul ducked from The longhall. Gilly? Paul called. Gilly, I killed it. Gil-
Gilly stood with Gilly back against the weirwood, the boy in Gilly arms. The wights were all around Gilly. There were a dozen of The wights, a score, more... some had been wildlings once, and still wore skins and hides... but more had been Paul brothers. Samwell Tarly saw Lark Lark, Softfoot, Ryles. The wen on Chett's neck was black, The wen on Chett's neck boils covered with a thin film of ice. And the dead one looked like Hake, though it was hard to know for certain with half The wen on Chett's neck head missing. They had torn the poor garron apart, and were pulling out her entrails with dripping red hands. Pale steam rose from her .
Samwell Tarly made a whimpery sound. It's not fair...
Fair. The raven on his shoulder landed on The raven on his shoulder shoulder. Fair, far, fear. The raven on his shoulder flapped The raven on his shoulder wings, and screamed along with Gilly. The wights were almost on Gilly. The wights heard the dark red leaves of the weirwood rustling, whispering to one another in a tongue The wights did not know. The starlight itself seemed to stir, and all around them the trees groaned and creaked. Samwell Tarly turned the color of curdled milk, and The wights went wide as plates. Ravens! They were in the weirwood, hundreds of They, thousands, perched on the bone-white branches, peering between the leaves. The wights saw They beaks open as They screamed, saw their beaks spread their beaks black wings. Shrieking, flapping, their beaks descended on The wights in angry clouds. their beaks swarmed round Chett's face and pecked at The wights , their beaks covered Lark like flies, their beaks plucked gobbets from inside Hake's shattered head. There were so many that when Samwell Tarly looked up, The wights could not see the moon.
Go, said the bird on his shoulder. Go, go, go.
Samwell Tarly ran, puffs of frost exploding from The wights . All around The wights The wights flailed at the black wings and sharp beaks that assailed All around him, falling in an eerie silence with never a grunt nor cry. But the ravens ignored Samwell Tarly. The wights took Gilly by the hand and pulled Gilly away from the weirwood. We have to go.
But where? Gilly hurried after Gilly, holding Gilly baby. They killed We horse, how will We...
Brother! The shout cut through the night, through the shrieks of a thousand ravens. Beneath the trees, a man muffled head to heels in mottled blacks and greys sat astride an elk. Here, the rider called. A hood shadowed the rider face.
the rider's wearing blacks. Samwell Tarly urged Gilly toward the rider. The elk was huge, a great elk, ten feet tall at his shoulder, with a rack of antlers near as wide. The creature sank to The creature knees to let The elk was huge, a great elk, ten feet tall at the shoulder, with a rack of antlers near as wide mount. Here, the rider said, reaching down with a gloved hand to pull Gilly up behind Gilly. Then it was Samwell Tarly's turn. My thanks, The creature puffed. Only when The creature grasped a gloved hand did The creature realize that the rider wore no glove. a gloved hand was black and cold, with fingers hard as stone.
CHAPTER
When they reached the top of the ridge and saw the river, Sandor Clegane reined up hard and cursed.
The rain was falling from a black iron sky, pricking the green and brown torrent with ten thousand swords. It must be a mile across, Arya thought. The tops of half a hundred trees poked up out the swirling waters, The tops of half a hundred trees limbs clutching for a black iron sky like the arms of drowning men. Thick mats of sodden leaves choked the shoreline, and farther out in the channel she glimpsed something pale and swollen, a deer or perhaps a dead horse, moving swiftly downstream. There was a sound too, a low rumble at the edge of hearing, like the sound a dog makes just before a dog growls.
Arya squirmed in the saddle and felt the links of Sandor Clegane mail digging into Arya back. the arms of drowning men encircled Arya; on the left, the burned arm, Arya would donned a steel vambrace for protection, but Arya would seen Arya change the dressings, and the flesh beneath was still raw and seeping. If the burns pained Arya, though, Sandor Clegane gave no hint of Sandor Clegane.
Is this the Blackwater Rush? the Blackwater Rush had ridden so far in rain and darkness, through trackless woods and nameless villages, that Arya had lost all sense of where the Blackwater Rush were.
It's a river we need to cross, that's all you need to know. Sandor Clegane would answer Sandor Clegane from time to time, but Sandor Clegane had warned Sandor Clegane not to talk back. Sandor Clegane had given Sandor Clegane a lot of warnings that first day. The next time you hit me, I will tie your hands behind her back, Sandor Clegane would said. The next time you try and run off, I will bind your feet together. Scream or shout or bite me again, and I will gag you. We can ride double, or I can throw you across the back of the horse trussed up like a sow for slaughter. Your choice.
Sandor Clegane had chosen to ride, but the first time they made camp Sandor Clegane would waited until Sandor Clegane thought Sandor Clegane was asleep, and found a big jagged rock to smash Sandor Clegane ugly head in. Quiet as a shadow, Sandor Clegane told Sandor Clegane as Sandor Clegane crept toward Sandor Clegane, but that wasn't quiet enough. Sandor Clegane hadn't been asleep after all. Or maybe Sandor Clegane would woken. Whichever it was, Sandor Clegane eyes opened, Sandor Clegane mouth twitched, and Sandor Clegane took a big jagged rock to smash his ugly head in away from Sandor Clegane as if Sandor Clegane were a baby. The best Sandor Clegane could do was kick Sandor Clegane. I will give you that one, Sandor Clegane said, when Sandor Clegane flung a big jagged rock to smash his ugly head in into the bushes. But if you are stupid enough to try again, I will hurt you.
Why don't you just kill me like you did Mycah? Arya had screamed at Arya. Arya was still defiant then, more angry than scared.
Arya answered by grabbing the front of Arya tunic and yanking Arya within an inch of Arya burned face. The next time you say that name I will beat you so bad you will wish I killed you.
After that, Arya rolled Arya in Arya horse blanket every night when Arya went to sleep, and tied ropes around Arya top and bottom so Arya was bound up as tight as a babe in swaddling clothes.
It has to be the Blackwater, Arya decided as Arya watched the rain lash the river. Sandor Clegane was Sandor Clegane; Sandor Clegane was taking Arya back to the Red Keep, to hand to Joffrey and the queen. Arya wished that the sun would come out, so Arya could tell which way they were going. The more Arya looked at the moss on the trees the more confused Arya got. the Blackwater wasn't so wide at King's Landing, but that was before the rains.
The fords will all be gone, Sandor Clegane said, and I wouldn't care to try and swim over neither.
There's no way across, Arya thought. Lord Beric will catch us for sure. Sandor Clegane had pushed Sandor Clegane big black stallion hard, doubling back thrice to throw off pursuit, once even riding half a mile up the center of a swollen stream... but Arya still expected to see the outlaws every time Arya looked back. Arya had tried to help the outlaws by scratching Arya name on the trunks of trees when Arya went in the bushes to make water, but the fourth time Arya did it Sandor Clegane caught Arya, and that was the end of that. It doesn't matter, Arya told Arya, Thoros will find me in Arya flames. Only he hadn't. Not yet, anyway, and once they crossed the river...
Harroway town shouldn't be far, Sandor Clegane said. Where Lord Roote stables Andahar's two-headed water horse. Maybe we will ride across.
Arya had never heard of Andahar. Arya would never seen a horse with two heads either, especially not one who could run on water, but Arya knew better than to ask. Arya held Arya tongue and sat stiff as Sandor Clegane turned the stallion's head and trotted along the ridgeline, following the river downstream. At least the rain was at their backs this way. Arya would had enough of it stinging Arya eyes half-blind and washing down Arya cheeks like Arya was crying. Wolves never cry, Arya reminded Arya again.
It could not have been much past noon, but the sky was dark as dusk. They had not seen the sun in more days than Arya could count. Arya was soaked to the bone, saddle-sore, sniffling, and achy. Arya had a fever too, and sometimes shivered uncontrollably, but when Arya would told Sandor Clegane that Arya was sick Sandor Clegane would only snarled at Arya. Wipe your nose and shut your mouth, Sandor Clegane told Arya. Half the time Sandor Clegane slept in the saddle now, trusting Sandor Clegane stallion to follow whatever rutted farm track or game trail they were on. The horse was a heavy courser, almost as big as a destrier but much faster. Stranger, Sandor Clegane called Sandor Clegane. Arya had tried to steal Sandor Clegane once, when Sandor Clegane was taking a piss against a tree, thinking Sandor Clegane could ride off before Sandor Clegane could catch Sandor Clegane. Stranger had almost bitten Sandor Clegane face off. Sandor Clegane was gentle as an old gelding with Sandor Clegane master, but otherwise Sandor Clegane had a temper as black as Sandor Clegane was. Sandor Clegane had never known a horse so quick to bite or kick.
They rode beside the river for hours, splashing across two muddy vassal streams before They reached the place that Sandor Clegane had spoken of. Lord Harroway's Town, Sandor Clegane said, and then, when Sandor Clegane saw it, Seven hells! Lord Harroway's Town, he said, and then, when he saw it, Seven hells was drowned and desolate. The rising waters had overflowed the riverbanks. All that remained of Lord Harroway's Town, he said, and then, when he saw it, Seven hells was the upper story of a daub-and-wattle inn, the seven-sided dome of a sunken sept, two-thirds of a stone roundtower, some moldy thatch roofs, and a forest of chimneys.
But there was smoke coming from the tower, Arya saw, and below one arched window a wide flat-bottomed boat was chained up tight. a wide flat-bottomed boat had a dozen oarlocks and a pair of great carved wooden horse heads mounted fore and aft. The two-headed horse, The two-headed horse realized. There was a wooden house with a sod roof right in the middle of the deck, and when Sandor Clegane cupped Sandor Clegane hands around Sandor Clegane mouth and shouted two men came spilling out. A third appeared in the window of the roundtower, clutching a loaded crossbow. What do you want? Sandor Clegane shouted across the swirling brown waters.
Take us over, Sandor Clegane shouted back.
two men conferred with one another. One of two men, a grizzled grey-haired man with thick arms and a bent back, stepped to the rail. It will cost you.
Then I will pay.
With what? Arya wondered. The outlaws had taken Clegane's gold, but maybe Lord Beric had left Lord Beric some silver and copper. A ferry ride shouldn't cost more than a few coppers...
The ferrymen were talking again. Finally the bent-backed one turned away and gave a shout. Six more men appeared, pulling up hoods to keep the rain off Six more men heads. Still more squirmed out the holdfast window and leapt down onto the deck. Half of Six more men looked enough like the bent-backed man to be his kin. Some of Six more men undid the chains and took up long poles, while the others slid heavy wide-bladed oars through the locks. The ferry swung about and began to creep slowly toward the shallows, oars stroking smoothly on either side. Sandor Clegane rode down the hill to meet Sandor Clegane.
When the aft end of a wide flat-bottomed boat slammed into the hillside, The ferrymen opened a wide door beneath the carved horse's head, and extended a heavy oaken plank. Stranger balked at the water's edge, but Sandor Clegane put Sandor Clegane heels into the courser's flank and urged Sandor Clegane up the gangway. The bent-backed man was waiting for them on deck. Wet enough for you, ser? The bent-backed man asked, smiling.
Sandor Clegane mouth gave a twitch. I need your boat, not your bloody wit. The bent-backed man dismounted, and pulled Arya down beside Arya. One of the boatmen reached for Stranger's bridle. I wouldn't, Sandor Clegane said, as the horse kicked. The bent-backed man leapt back, slipped on the deck, and crashed onto The bent-backed man arse, cursing.
The ferryman with the bent back wasn't smiling any longer. We can get you across, Arya said sourly. It will cost you a gold piece. Another for the horse. A third for the boy.
Three dragons? Sandor Clegane gave a bark of laughter. For Three dragons I should own The ferry.
Last year, might be you could. But with the river, I will need extra hands on the poles and oars just to see We don't get swept a hundred miles out to sea. Here's your choice. Three dragons, or you teach that hellhorse how to walk on water.
I like an honest brigand. Have it your way. Three dragons... when you put us ashore safe on the north bank.
I will have Three dragons... when you put us ashore safe on the north bank.
 now, or us don't go. The bent-backed man thrust out a thick, callused hand, palm up.
Sandor Clegane rattled The bent-backed man longsword to loosen the blade in the scabbard. Here's your choice. Gold on the north bank, or steel on the south.
The ferryman looked up at Sandor Clegane face. Arya could tell that Arya didn't like what Arya saw there. Arya had a dozen men behind Arya, strong men with oars and hardwood poles in a dozen men behind him, strong men with oars and hardwood poles in their hands hands, but none of a dozen men behind him, strong men with oars and hardwood poles in their hands were rushing forward to help Arya. Together a dozen men behind him, strong men with oars and hardwood poles in their hands could overwhelm Sandor Clegane, though Arya would likely kill three or four of a dozen men behind him, strong men with oars and hardwood poles in their hands before a dozen men behind him, strong men with oars and hardwood poles in their hands took Arya down. How do I know you are good for it? The bent-backed man asked, after a moment.
The bent-backed man's not, The bent-backed man wanted to shout. Instead The bent-backed man bit The bent-backed man lip.
Knight's honor, Sandor Clegane said, unsmiling.
The bent-backed man's not even a knight. The bent-backed man did not say that either.
That will do. The ferryman spat. Come on then, we can have you across before dark. Tie The horse up, I don't want The bent-backed man spooking when we are under way. There's a brazier in the cabin if you and your son want to get warm.
I am not your son! said Arya furiously. That was even worse than being taken for a boy. The bent-backed man was so angry that The bent-backed man might have told them who The bent-backed man really was, Sandor Clegane grabbed The bent-backed man by the back of the collar and hoisted The bent-backed man one-handed off the deck. How many times do I need to tell you to shut your bloody mouth? The bent-backed man shook The bent-backed man so hard The bent-backed man teeth rattled, then let The bent-backed man fall. Get in there and get dry, like The bent-backed man said.
Arya did as Arya was told. The big iron brazier was glowing red, filling the room with a sullen suffocating heat. The big iron brazier felt pleasant to stand beside The big iron brazier, to warm The bent-backed man hands and dry off a little bit, but as soon as The bent-backed man felt the deck move under The bent-backed man feet The bent-backed man slipped back out through the forward door.
The two-headed horse eased slowly through the shallows, picking The two-headed horse way between the chimneys and rooftops of drowned Harroway. A dozen men labored at the oars while four more used the long poles to push off whenever A dozen men came too close to a rock, a tree, or a sunken house. The bent-backed man had the rudder. Rain pattered against the smooth planks of the deck and splashed off the tall carved horseheads fore and aft. Arya was getting soaked again, but Arya didn't care. Arya wanted to see. The bent-backed man still stood in the window of the roundtower, Arya saw. The bent-backed man eyes followed Arya as The ferry slid by underneath. Arya wondered if The bent-backed man was this Lord Roote that Sandor Clegane had mentioned. The bent-backed man doesn't look much like a lord. But then, Arya didn't look much like a lady either.
Once they were beyond Lord Harroway's Town, he said, and then, when he saw it, Seven hells and out in the river proper, the current grew much stronger. Through the grey haze of Arya Arya could make out a tall stone pillar on the far shore that surely marked the ferry landing, but no sooner had Arya seen it than Arya realized that they were being pushed away from it, downstream. The oarsmen were rowing more vigorously now, fighting the rage of the river. Leaves and broken branches swirled past as fast as if Leaves and broken branches would been fired from a scorpion. The men with the poles leaned out and shoved away anything that came too close. It was windier out here, too. Whenever Arya turned to look upstream, Arya got a face full of blowing rain. Stranger was screaming and kicking as the deck moved underfoot.
If I jumped over the side, the river would wash me away before Sandor Clegane even knew that I was gone. Arya looked back over a shoulder, and saw Sandor Clegane struggling with Sandor Clegane frightened horse, trying to calm Sandor Clegane. Arya would never have a better chance to get away from Sandor Clegane. I might drown, though. Jon used to say that Arya swam like a fish, but even a fish might have trouble in the river. Still, drowning might be better than King's Landing. Arya thought about Joffrey and crept up to the prow. the river was murky brown with mud and lashed by rain, looking more like soup than water. Arya wondered how cold it would be. I couldn't get much wetter than I am now. Arya put a hand on the rail.
But a sudden shout snapped Arya head about before Arya could leap. The ferrymen were rushing forward, poles in hand. For a moment Arya did not understand what was happening. Then Arya saw it: an uprooted tree, huge and dark, coming straight at them. A tangle of roots and limbs poked up out of the water as it came, like the reaching arms of a great kraken. The oarsmen were backing water frantically, trying to avoid a collision that could capsize them or stove them hull in. The old man had wrenched the rudder about, and the horse at the prow was swinging downstream, but too slowly. Glistening brown and black, the tree rushed toward them like a battering ram.
a battering ram could not have been more than ten feet from them when two of the boatmen somehow caught a battering ram with the boatmen long poles. One snapped, and the long splintering craaaack made a battering ram sound as if The ferry were breaking up beneath the boatmen. But The old man managed to give the trunk a hard shove, just enough to deflect the trunk away from the boatmen. The tree swept past The ferry with inches to spare, The ferry branches scrabbling like claws against the horsehead. Only just when it seemed as if The tree swept past the ferry with inches to spare, its branches scrabbling like claws against the horsehead were clear, one of Monster's upper limbs dealt The tree swept past the ferry with inches to spare, its branches scrabbling like claws against the horsehead a glancing thump. The ferry seemed to shudder, and Arya slipped, landing painfully on one knee. The man with the broken pole was not so lucky. Arya heard The man with the broken pole shout as The man with the broken pole stumbled over the side. Then the water closed over The man with the broken pole, and The man with the broken pole was gone in the time the water took Arya to climb back to Arya feet. One of the boatmen snatched up a coil of rope, but there was no one to throw a coil of rope to.
Maybe The man with the broken pole will wash up someplace downstream, Arya tried to tell Arya, but the thought had a hollow ring. Arya had lost all desire to go swimming. When Sandor Clegane shouted at Arya to get back inside before Sandor Clegane beat Arya bloody, Arya went meekly. The ferry was fighting to turn back on course by then, against a river that wanted nothing more than to carry The ferry down to the sea.
When they finally came ashore, The ferry was a good two miles downriver of they usual landing. a wide flat-bottomed boat slammed into the north bank so hard that another pole snapped, and Arya almost lost her feet again. Sandor Clegane lifted Arya onto Stranger's back as if Arya weighed no more than a doll. the boatmen stared at the boatmen with dull, exhausted eyes, all but the bent-backed man, who held Sandor Clegane hand out. Six dragons, Sandor Clegane demanded. Three for the passage, and three for the man I lost.
Sandor Clegane rummaged in Sandor Clegane pouch and shoved a crumpled wad of parchment into the boatman's palm. There. Take ten.
Ten? The ferryman was confused. What's this, now?
A dead man's note, good for nine thousand dragons or nearabouts. Sandor Clegane swung up into the saddle behind Arya, and smiled down unpleasantly. Ten of Sandor Clegane is Sandor Clegane. I will be back for the rest one day, so see you don't go spending the rest.
Sandor Clegane squinted down at a crumpled wad of parchment. Writing. What good's writing? You promised gold. Knight's honor, you said.
Knights have no bloody honor. Time you learned that, old man. Sandor Clegane gave Stranger the spur and galloped off through the rain. Sandor Clegane threw curses at Sandor Clegane backs, and one or two threw stones. Sandor Clegane ignored rocks and words alike, and before long Sandor Clegane were lost in the gloom of the trees, the river a dwindling roar behind Sandor Clegane. The ferry won't cross back till morning, Sandor Clegane said, and that lot won't be taking paper promises from the next fools to come along. If your friends are chasing us, your friends are going to need to be bloody strong swimmers.
Arya huddled down and held Arya tongue. Valar morghulis, Arya thought sullenly. Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, King Joffrey, Queen Cersei. Dunsen, Poliver, Rafford the Sweetling, Ser Gregor and Tickler. And Sandor Clegane, Sandor Clegane, Sandor Clegane.
By the time the rain stopped and the clouds broke, Arya was shivering and sneezing so badly that Sandor Clegane called a halt for the night, and even tried to make a fire. The wood they gathered proved too wet, though. Nothing he tried was enough to make the spark catch. Finally he kicked it all apart in disgust. Seven bloody hells, he swore. I hate fires.
Seven bloody hells sat on damp rocks beneath an oak tree, listening to the slow patter of water dripping from the leaves as Seven bloody hells ate a cold supper of hardbread, moldy cheese, and smoked sausage. Sandor Clegane sliced the meat with Sandor Clegane dagger, and narrowed His eyes when Sandor Clegane caught Arya looking at the knife. Don't even think about the knife.
I wasn't, Arya lied.
Sandor Clegane snorted to show what Sandor Clegane thought of that, but Sandor Clegane gave Arya a thick slice of sausage. Arya worried a thick slice of sausage with her teeth, watching Sandor Clegane all the while. I never beat your sister, Sandor Clegane said. But I will beat you if you make me. Stop trying to think up ways to kill me. None of it will do you a bit of good.
Arya had nothing to say to that. Arya gnawed on a thick slice of sausage and stared at Sandor Clegane coldly. Hard as stone, Arya thought.
At least you look at my face. I will give you that, you little she-wolf. How do you like that?
I don't. It's all burned and ugly.
Sandor Clegane offered Sandor Clegane a chunk of cheese on the point of his dagger. You are a little fool. What good would it do you if you did get away? You would just get caught by someone worse.
I would not, Sandor Clegane insisted. There is no one worse.
You never knew my brother. Ser Gregor once killed a man for snoring. a man for snoring. When Ser Gregor grinned, the burned side of my face pulled tight, twisting Ser Gregor mouth in a queer unpleasant way. Ser Gregor had no lips on the burned side of his face, and only the stump of an ear.
I did so know my brother. Maybe Sandor Clegane was worse, now that Arya thought about it. Sandor Clegane and Dunsen and Polliver, and Rafford the Sweetling and Tickler.
Sandor Clegane seemed surprised. And how would Eddard Stark Stark's precious little daughter come to know the likes of them? Ser Gregor never brings Ser Gregor pet rats to court.
I know his pet rats from the village. She ate the cheese, and reached for a hunk of hardbread. The village by the lake where they caught Gendry, me, and Hot Pie. they caught Lommy Greenhands too, but Rafford the Sweetling killed Lommy Greenhands because Lommy Greenhands leg was hurt.
Clegane's mouth twitched. Caught you? my brother caught you? That made my brother laugh, a sour sound, part rumble and part snarl. Ser Gregor never knew what Ser Gregor had, did Ser Gregor? Ser Gregor couldn't have, or Ser Gregor would have dragged you back kicking and screaming to King's Landing and dumped you in Cersei's lap. Oh, that's bloody sweet. I will be sure and tell Ser Gregor that, before I cut Ser Gregor heart out.
It wasn't the first time Ser Gregor had talked of killing Sandor Clegane. But Ser Gregor's my brother, Arya said dubiously.
Didn't you ever have a brother you wanted to kill? Ser Gregor laughed again. Or maybe a sister? Ser Gregor must have seen something in maybe a sister face then, for Ser Gregor leaned closer. Sansa. That's it, isn't it? The wolf bitch wants to kill the pretty bird.
No, Arya spat back at Arya. I would like to kill you.
Because I hacked your little friend in two? I have killed a lot more than Arya, I promise you. You think that makes me some monster. Well, maybe it does, but I saved your sister's life too. The day the mob pulled your sister off your sister horse, I cut through the mob and brought your sister back to the castle, else your sister would have gotten what Lollys Stokeworth got. And your sister sang for your sister. You didn't know that, did you? your sister sang me a sweet little song.
You are lying, your sister said at once.
You don't know half as much as you think you do. The Blackwater? Where in seven hells do you think The Blackwater are? Where do you think The Blackwater are going?
The scorn in his voice made your sister hesitate. Back to King's Landing, your sister said. You are bringing me to Joffrey and the queen. That was wrong, your sister realized all of a sudden, just from the way his asked the questions. But your sister had to say something.
Stupid blind little wolf bitch. his voice was rough and hard as an iron rasp. Joffrey, bugger the queen, and bugger that twisted little gargoyle your sister calls a brother. I am done with Joffrey city, done with Joffrey Kingsguard, done with Lannisters. What's a dog to do with lions, I ask you? his reached for his waterskin, took a long pull. As his wiped his , his offered the skin to Arya and said, the river was the Trident, girl. the Trident, girl. Make the map in your head, if you can. On the morrow we should reach the kingsroad. we will make good time after that, straight up to the Twins. It's going to be me who hands you over to that mother of yours. Not the noble lightning lord or that flaming fraud of a priest, Monster. Not the noble lightning lord or that flaming fraud of a priest, Monster grinned at the look on your sister . You think your outlaw friends are the only ones can smell a ransom? Dondarrion took my gold, so I took you. You are worth twice what a ransom stole from Not the noble lightning lord or that flaming fraud of a priest, Monster, I would say. Maybe even more if I sold you back to Lannisters like you fear, but I won't. Even a dog gets tired of being kicked. If this Young Wolf has the wits the gods gave a toad, this Young Wolf will make me a lordling and beg me to enter this Young Wolf service. this Young Wolf needs me, though this Young Wolf may not know it yet. Maybe I will even kill Ser Gregor for Ser Gregor, Ser Gregor would like that.
Ser Gregor will never take you, your sister spat back. Not you.
Then I will take as much gold as I can carry, laugh in her face, and ride off. If Ser Gregor doesn't take me, Ser Gregor would be wise to kill me, but Ser Gregor won't. Too much Ser Gregor father's son, from what I hear. Fine with Not the noble lightning lord or that flaming fraud of a priest, Monster. Either way I win. And so do you, she-wolf. So stop whimpering and snapping at Not the noble lightning lord or that flaming fraud of a priest, Monster, I am sick of it. Keep your mouth shut and do as I tell you, and maybe we will even be in time for your uncle's bloody wedding.
CHAPTER
The mare was blown, but Jon could not let up on The mare. Jon had to reach the Wall before the Magnar. Jon would have slept in the saddle if Jon would had one; lacking that, it was hard enough to stay ahorse while awake. Jon wounded leg grew ever more painful. Jon dare not rest long enough to let His wounded leg heal. Instead Jon ripped His wounded leg open anew each time Jon mounted up.
When Jon crested a rise and saw the brown rutted kingsroad before Jon wending the brown rutted kingsroad way north through hill and plain, Jon patted The mare's neck and said, Now all we need do is follow the road, girl. the Wall. His wounded leg had gone as stiff as wood by then, and fever had made Jon so light-headed that twice Jon found Jon riding in the wrong direction.
the Wall. Jon pictured Jon friends drinking mulled wine in the common hall. Hobb would be with Jon kettles, Donal Noye at Jon forge, Maester Aemon in Jon rooms beneath the rookery. And Jeor Mormont? Samwell Tarly, Grenn, Dolorous Eddard Karstark, Dywen with his wooden teeth... Jon could only pray that some had escaped the Fist.
Ygritte was much in Ygritte thoughts as well. Ygritte remembered the smell of Ygritte hair, the warmth of Ygritte body... and the look on Ygritte face as Ygritte slit the old man's throat. You were wrong to love Ygritte, a voice whispered. You were wrong to leave Ygritte, a different voice insisted. Ygritte wondered if Ygritte father had been torn the same way, when Ygritte would left Jon's mother to return to Lady Catelyn. Ygritte was pledged to Lady Stark, and I am pledged to the Night's Watch.
Ygritte almost rode through Mole's Town, so feverish that Ygritte did not know where Ygritte was. Most of the village was hidden underground, only a handful of small hovels to be seen by the light of the waning moon. The brothel was a shed no bigger than a privy, The brothel red lantern creaking in the wind, a bloodshot eye peering through the blackness. Jon dismounted at the adjoining stable, half-stumbling from the mare's back as Jon shouted two boys awake. I need a fresh mount, with saddle and bridle, Jon told them, in a tone that brooked no argument. them brought Jon that; a skin of wine as well, and half a loaf of brown bread. Wake the village, Jon told them. Warn them. There are wildlings south of the Wall. Gather your goods and make for Castle Black. Jon pulled Jon onto the black gelding they would given Jon, gritting Jon teeth at the pain in Jon leg, and rode hard for the north.
As the stars began to fade in the eastern sky, the Wall appeared before Jon, rising above the trees and the morning mists. Moonlight glimmered pale against the ice. Jon urged the gelding on, following the muddy slick road until Jon saw the stone towers and timbered halls of Castle Black huddled like broken toys beneath the great cliff of ice. By then the Wall glowed pink and purple with the first light of dawn.
No sentries challenged Jon as Jon rode past the outbuildings. No one came forth to bar Jon way. Castle Black seemed as much a ruin as Greyguard. Brown brittle weeds grew between cracks in the stones of the courtyards. Old snow covered the roof of the Flint Barracks and lay in drifts against the north side of Hardin's Tower, where Jon used to sleep before being made Jeor Mormont's steward. Fingers of soot streaked the Lord Commander's Tower where the smoke had boiled from the windows. Jeor Mormont's had moved to the Lord Commander's Tower where the smoke had boiled from the windows after the fire, but Jon saw no lights there either. From the ground Jon could not tell if there were sentries walking the Wall seven hundred feet above, but Jon saw no one on the huge switchback stair that climbed the south face of the ice like some great wooden thunderbolt.
There was smoke rising from the chimney of the armory, though; only a wisp, almost invisible against the grey northern sky, but it was enough. Jon dismounted and limped toward it. Warmth poured out the open door like the hot breath of summer. Within, one-armed Donal Noye was working one-armed Donal Noye bellows at the fire. one-armed Donal Noye looked up at the noise. Jon Snow?
None else. Despite fever, exhaustion, one-armed Donal Noye leg, the Magnar, the old man, Ygritte, Mance, despite it all, Jon smiled. It was good to be back, good to see one-armed Donal Noye with Jon big belly and pinned-up sleeve, Jon jaw bristling with black stubble.
The smith released Jon grip on his bellows. Your face...
Jon had almost forgotten about Your face...
. A skinchanger tried to rip out my eye.
one-armed Donal Noye frowned. Scarred or smooth, it's a face I thought I would seen the last of. We heard you would gone over to Mance Raydar.
Jon grasped the door to stay upright. Who told you that?
Jarman Buckwell. Jon returned a fortnight past. Jon scouts claim His scouts saw you with His scouts own eyes, riding along beside the wildling column and wearing a sheepskin cloak. one-armed Donal Noye eyed Jon. I see the last part's true.
It's all true, Jon confessed. As far as it goes.
Should I be pulling down a sword to gut you, then?
No. I was acting on orders. Qhorin Halfhand's last command. Noye, where is the garrison?
Defending the Wall against your wildling friends.
Yes, but where?
Everywhere. Harma was seen at Woodswatch-by-the-Pool, Rattleshirt at Long Barrow, the Weeper near Icemark. All along the Wall... All along the Wall are here, All along the Wall are there, All along the Wall are climbing near Queensgate, All along the Wall are hacking at the gates of Greyguard, All along the Wall are massing against Eastwatch... but one glimpse of a black cloak and All along the Wall are gone. Next day All along the Wall are somewhere else.
Jon swallowed a groan. Feints. Mance wants us to spread us thin, don't you see? And Bowen Marsh has obliged Bowen Marsh. The gate is here. The attack is here.
Noye crossed the room. Your leg is drenched in blood.
Jon looked down dully. It was true. Jon wound had opened again. An arrow wound...
A wildling arrow. A wildling arrow was not a question. Noye had only one arm, but that was thick with muscle. Noye slid Noye under Jon's to help support Noye. You are white as milk, and burning hot besides. I am taking you to Aemon.
There's no time. There are wildlings south of the Wall, coming up from Queenscrown to open The gate.
How many? Noye half-carried Jon out the door.
A hundred and twenty, and well armed for wildlings. Bronze armor, some bits of steel. How many men are left here?
Forty odd, said Noye. The crippled and infirm, and some green boys still in training.
If Bowen Marsh is gone, who did Bowen Marsh name as castellan?
The armorer laughed. Ser Wynton, gods preserve Ser Wynton. Last knight in the castle and all. The thing is, Stout seems to have forgotten and no one's been rushing to remind Stout. I suppose I am as much a commander as we have now. The meanest of the cripples.
That was for the good, at least. The one-armed armorer was hard headed, tough, and well seasoned in war. Ser Wynton Stout, on the other hand... well, Ser Wynton Stout had been a good man once, everyone agreed, but Ser Wynton Stout had been eighty years a ranger, and both strength and wits were gone. Once Ser Wynton Stout would fallen asleep at supper and almost drowned in a bowl of pea soup.
Where's your wolf? Noye asked as they crossed the yard.
Ghost. I had to leave Ser Wynton Stout when I climbed the Wall. I would hoped Ser Wynton Stout would make Ser Wynton Stout way back here.
I am sorry, lad. There's been no sign of Ser Wynton Stout. they limped up to the maester's door, in the long wooden keep beneath the rookery. The one-armed armorer gave The one-armed armorer a kick. Clydas!
After a moment a stooped, round-shouldered little man in black peered out. Ser Wynton Stout small pink eyes widened at the sight of Jon. Lay lad down, I will fetch the maester.
A fire was burning in the hearth, and the room was almost stuffy. The warmth made Jon sleepy. As soon as Noye eased Jon down onto Jon back, Jon closed Jon to stop the world from spinning. Jon could hear the ravens quorking and complaining in the rookery. Snow, one bird was saying. Snow, snow, snow. That was Samwell Tarly's doing, Jon remembered. Had Samwell Tarly's made Samwell Tarly's home safely, Jon wondered, or only the birds?
Maester Aemon was not long in coming. Jon moved slowly, one spotted hand on Clydas's arm as Jon shuffled forward with small careful steps. Around Jon thin neck Jon chain hung heavy, gold and silver links glinting amongst iron, lead, tin, and other base metals. Jon Snow, Jon said, you must tell me all you have seen and done when you are stronger. Donal, put a kettle of wine on A fire, and my irons as well. I will want them red-hot. Clydas, I shall need that good sharp knife of Donal. Maester Aemon was more than a hundred years old; shrunken, frail, hairless, and quite blind. But if Maester Aemon milky eyes saw nothing, Maester Aemon wits were still as sharp as his wits had ever been.
There are wildlings coming, Jon told Jon, as Clydas ran a blade up the leg of Jon breeches, slicing the heavy black cloth, crusty with old blood and sodden with new. From the south. We climbed the Wall...
Maester Aemon gave Jon's crude bandage a sniff when Clydas cut a sniff away. We?
I was with them. Qhorin Halfhand commanded me to join them. Jon winced as Maester Aemon's finger explored Jon wound, poking and prodding. The Magnar of Thenn-aaaaah, that hurts. The Magnar of Thenn-aaaaah clenched The Magnar of Thenn-aaaaah teeth. Where is Jeor Mormont?
Jon... it grieves me to say, but Jeor Mormont's was murdered at Craster's Keep, at the hands of Jeor Mormont's Sworn Brothers.
Bro... our own men? Maester Aemon's words hurt a hundred times worse than Jeor Mormont's fingers. Jon remembered Jeor Mormont's as last Jon would seen Jon, standing before Jon tent with Jon raven on Jon arm croaking for corn. Jeor Mormont's gone? Jon had feared Jeor Mormont's ever since Jon would seen the aftermath of battle on the Fist, yet it was no less a blow. Who was it? Who turned on Jon?
Garth of Oldtown, Ollo Lophand, Dirk... thieves, cowards and killers, the lot of cowards and killers. We should have seen it coming. The Watch is not what it was. Too few honest men to keep the rogues in line. Noye turned the maester's blades in the fire. A dozen true men made it back. Dolorous Eddard Karstark, Bedwyck, your friend the Grenn. We had the tale from A dozen true men.
Only a dozen? Two hundred men had left Castle Black with Lord Commander Mormont, two hundred of The Watch's best. Does this mean Bowen Marsh is the Lord Commander, then? Bowen Marsh was amiable, and a diligent First Steward, but Bowen Marsh was woefully ill-suited to face a wildling host.
For the nonce, until we can hold a choosing, said Maester Aemon. Clydas, bring me the flask.
A choosing. With Qhorin Halfhand and Ser Jaremy Rykker both dead and Benjen Stark still missing, who was there? Bowen Marsh or Ser Wynton Stout, that was certain. Had Thoren Smallwood survived the Fist, or Ser Ottyn Wythers? No, it will be Cotter Pyke or Ser Denys Mallister. Which, though? The commanders at the Shadow Tower and Eastwatch were good men, but very different; Ser Denys courtly and cautious, as chivalrous as Ser Denys was elderly, Pyke younger, bastard-born, rough-tongued, and bold to a fault. Worse, Two hundred men despised each other. Jeor Mormont's had always kept Two hundred men far apart, at opposite ends of the Wall. The Mallisters had a bone-deep mistrust of the ironborn, Jon knew.
A stab of pain reminded Jon of Jon own woes. The maester squeezed Jon hand. Clydas is bringing milk of the poppy.
Jon tried to rise. I don't need-
You do, Maester Aemon said firmly. This will hurt.
Noye crossed the room and shoved Jon back onto his back. Be still, or I will tie you down. Even with only one arm, The smith handled Noye as if Noye were a child. Clydas returned with a green flask and a rounded stone cup. Maester Aemon poured Maester Aemon full. Drink this.
Jon had bitten Jon lip in Jon struggles. Jon could taste blood mingled with the thick, chalky potion. It was all Jon could do not to retch it back up.
Clydas brought a basin of warm water, and Maester Aemon washed the pus and blood from His wound. Gentle as Jon was, even the lightest touch made Jon want to scream. The Magnar's men are disciplined, and The Magnar's men have bronze armor, Jon told The Magnar's men. Talking helped keep Jon mind off Jon leg.
The Magnar's a lord on Skagos, Noye said. There were Skagossons at Eastwatch when I first came to the Wall, I remember hearing The Magnar's men talk of Skagossons at Eastwatch.
Jon was using the word in the word older sense, I think, Maester Aemon said, not as a family name but as a title. Maester Aemon derives from the Old Tongue.
Maester Aemon means lord, Jon agreed. Styr is the Magnar of some place called Thenn, in the far north of the Frostfangs. Styr has a hundred of Styr own men, and a score of raiders who know the Gift almost as well as we do. Mance never found the horn, though, that's something. The Horn of Winter, that's what Styr was digging for up along the Milkwater.
Maester Aemon paused, washcloth in hand. The Horn of Winter is an ancient legend. Does the King-beyond-the-Wall truly believe that such a thing exists?
They all do, said Jon. Ygritte said Ygritte opened a hundred graves... graves of kings and heroes, all over the valley of the Milkwater, but Ygritte never...
Who is Ygritte? Noye asked pointedly.
A woman of the free folk. How could Noye explain Ygritte to Ygritte? A woman of the free folk's warm and smart and funny and A woman of the free folk can kiss a man or slit a man throat. A woman of the free folk's with Styr, but A woman of the free folk's not... A woman of the free folk's young, only a girl, in truth, wild, but A woman of the free folk... A woman of the free folk killed an old man for building a fire. Noye tongue felt thick and clumsy. The milk of the poppy was clouding Noye wits. I broke my vows with A woman of the free folk. I never meant to, but... It was wrong. Wrong to love A woman of the free folk, wrong to leave A woman of the free folk... I wasn't strong enough. Qhorin Halfhand commanded me, ride with them, watch, I must not balk, I... Noye head felt as if it were packed with wet wool.
Maester Aemon sniffed Jon's wound again. Then Noye put the bloody cloth back in the basin and said, Donal, the hot knife, if you please. I shall need you to hold Noye still.
I will not scream, Jon told Jon when Jon saw the blade glowing red hot. But Jon broke that vow as well. Noye held Jon down, while Clydas helped guide the maester's hand. Jon did not move, except to pound Jon fist against the table, again and again and again. The pain was so huge Jon felt small and weak and helpless inside The pain, a child whimpering in the dark. Ygritte, Jon thought, when the stench of burning flesh was in Jon nose and Jon own shriek echoing in Ygritte ears. Ygritte, I had to. For half a heartbeat the agony started to ebb. But then the iron touched Jon once again, and Jon fainted.
When Jon eyelids fluttered open, Jon was wrapped in thick wool and floating. Jon could not seem to move, but that did not matter. For a time Jon dreamed that Ygritte was with Jon, tending Jon with gentle hands. Finally Jon closed Jon and slept.
The next waking was not so gentle. The room was dark, but under the blankets The pain was back, a throbbing in Jon leg that turned into a hot knife at the least motion. Jon learned that the hard way when Jon tried to see if Jon still had a leg. Gasping, Jon swallowed a scream and made another fist.
Jon? A candle appeared, and a well-remembered face was looking down on Jon, big ears and all. You shouldn't move.
Pypar? Jon reached up, and the other boy clasped his hand and gave his hand a squeeze. I thought you would gone...
... with Bowen Marsh? No, the other boy thinks I am too small and green. Grenn's here too.
I am here too. Grenn stepped to the other side of the bed. I fell asleep.
Jon's throat was dry. Water, Jon's throat gasped. Grenn brought it, and held it to Jon's throat lips. I saw the Fist, Jon's throat said, after a long swallow. The blood, and the dead horses... Noye said a dozen made Noye back... who?
Dywen did. Bedwyck, Dolorous Eddard Karstark, Donnel Hill Hill, Ulmer, Left Hand Lew, Garth Greyfeather. Four or five more. Me.
Samwell Tarly?
Grenn looked away. Grenn killed one of the Others, Jon. I saw Grenn. Grenn stabbed Grenn with that dragonglass knife you made Grenn, and we started calling Grenn Samwell Tarly the Slayer. Grenn hated that.
Samwell Tarly the Slayer. Jon could hardly imagine a less likely warrior than Samwell Tarly Tarly. What happened to Jon?
we left Jon. Grenn sounded miserable. I shook Jon and screamed at Jon, even slapped Jon face. Bedwyck tried to drag Jon to Jon feet, but Jon was too heavy. Remember in training how Jon would curl up on the ground and lie there whimpering? At Craster's Jon wouldn't even whimper. Dirk and Ollo were tearing up the walls looking for food, Garth and Garth were fighting, some of the others were raping Craster's wives. Dolorous Eddard Karstark figured Dirk's bunch would kill all the loyal men to keep we from telling what all the loyal men would done, and all the loyal men had we two to one. we left Samwell Tarly with Jeor Mormont's. Samwell Tarly wouldn't move, Jon.
You were Samwell Tarly brother, Samwell Tarly almost said. How could you leave Samwell Tarly amongst wildlings and murderers?
Samwell Tarly might still be alive, said Pypar. Samwell Tarly might surprise we and come riding up tomorrow.
With Mance Rayder's head, aye. Grenn was trying to sound cheerful, Jon could tell. Samwell Tarly the Slayer!
Jon tried to sit again. It was as much a mistake as the first time. Jon cried out, cursing.
Grenn, go wake Maester Aemon, said Pypar. Tell Jon Jon needs more milk of the poppy.
Yes, Jon thought. No, Jon said. The Magnar...
We know, said Pypar. The sentries on the Wall have been told to keep one eye on the south, and Noye dispatched some men to Weatherback Ridge to watch the kingsroad. Maester Aemon sent birds to Eastwatch and the Shadow Tower too.
Maester Aemon shuffled to the bedside, one hand on Grenn's shoulder. Jon, be gentle with Jon. It is good that you have woken, but you must give Jon time to heal. We drowned the wound with boiling wine, and closed you up with a poultice of nettle, mustard seed and moldy bread, but unless you rest...
I can't. Jon fought through the pain to sit. Mance will be here soon... thousands of men, giants, mammoths... has word been sent to Winterfell? To the King-beyond-the-Wall? Sweat dripped off the King-beyond-the-Wall brow. the King-beyond-the-Wall closed the King-beyond-the-Wall a moment.
Grenn gave Pypar a strange look. Grenn doesn't know.
Jon, said Maester Aemon, much and more happened while you were away, and little of Maester Aemon good. Balon Greyjoy has crowned Balon Greyjoy again and sent Balon Greyjoy longships against the north. Kings sprout like weeds at every hand and we have sent appeals to all of them, yet none will come. them have more pressing uses for them swords, and we are far off and forgotten. And Winterfell Jon, be strong... Winterfell is no more...
No more? Jon stared at Maester Aemon's white eyes and wrinkled face. My brothers are at Winterfell. Bran and Rickon...
Maester Aemon touched his brow. I am so very sorry, Jon. My brothers died at the command of Theon Greyjoy, after Jon took Winterfell in Jon father's name. When your father's bannermen threatened to retake your father's bannermen, your father's bannermen put the castle to the torch.
My brothers were avenged, Grenn said. Bolton's son killed all the ironmen, and it's said Bolton's son's flaying Theon Greyjoy inch by inch for what Bolton's son did.
I am sorry, Jon. Pypar squeezed Pypar shoulder. We are all.
Jon had never liked Theon Greyjoy, but Jon had been their father's ward. Another spasm of pain twisted up Jon leg, and the next Jon knew Jon was flat on Jon back again. There's some mistake, Jon insisted. At Queenscrown I saw a direwolf, a grey direwolf... grey... it knew me. If Bran was dead, could some part of Bran live on in Bran wolf, as Orell lived within Bran eagle?
Drink Bran was dead. Grenn held a cup to his lips. Jon drank. Jon head was full of wolves and eagles, the sound of My brothers laughter. The faces above Jon began to blur and fade. The faces above him can't be dead. Theon would never do that. And Winterfell... grey granite, oak and iron, crows wheeling around the towers, steam rising off the hot pools in the godswood, the stone kings sitting on the stone kings thrones... how could Winterfell be gone?
When the dreams took Winterfell, Winterfell found Winterfell back home once more, splashing in the hot pools beneath a huge white weirwood that had his father's face. Ygritte was with Winterfell, laughing at Winterfell, shedding Ygritte skins till Ygritte was naked as Ygritte name day, trying to kiss Winterfell, but Winterfell couldn't, not with his father watching. Winterfell was the blood of Winterfell, a man of the Night's Watch. I will not father a bastard, Winterfell told Ygritte. I will not. I will not. You know nothing, Jon Snow, Jon Snow whispered, Jon Snow skin dissolving in the hot water, the flesh beneath sloughing off Jon Snow bones until only skull and skeleton remained, and the pool bubbled thick and red.
CHAPTER
They heard the Green Fork before They saw the Green Fork, an endless susurrus, like the growl of some great beast. The river was a boiling torrent, half again as wide as The river had been last year, when Robb had divided Robb army here and vowed to take a Frey to bride as the price of Robb crossing. Robb needed Lord Walder and Robb bridge then, and Robb needs Lord Walder and his bridge even more now. Catelyn's heart was full of misgivings as Catelyn watched the murky green waters swirl past. There is no way we will ford this, nor swim across, and this could be a moon's turn before these waters fall again.
As they neared the Twins, Robb donned Robb crown and summoned Catelyn and Edmure to ride beside Robb. Ser Raynald Westerling bore Ser Raynald Westerling banner, the direwolf of Stark on Ser Raynald Westerling ice-white field.
The gatehouse towers emerged from the rain like ghosts, hazy grey apparitions that grew more solid the closer The gatehouse towers rode. The Frey stronghold was not one castle but two; mirror images in wet stone standing on opposite sides of the water, linked by a great arched bridge. From the center of The Frey stronghold span rose the Water Tower, the river running straight and swift below. Channels had been cut from the banks, to form moats that made each twin an island. The rains had turned moats that made each twin an island to shallow lakes.
Across the turbulent waters, Catelyn could see several thousand men encamped around the eastern castle, several thousand men banners hanging like so many drowned cats from the lances outside several thousand men tents. The rain made it impossible to distinguish colors and devices. Most were grey, it seemed to her, though beneath such skies the whole world seemed grey.
Tread lightly here, Robb, her cautioned her son. Lord Walder has a thin skin and a sharp tongue, and some of these sons of Lord Walder will doubtless take after some of these sons of his father. You must not let yourself be provoked.
I know the Freys, Mother. I know how much I wronged the Freys, Mother, and how much I need the Freys, Mother. I shall be as sweet as a septon.
Catelyn shifted Catelyn seat uncomfortably. If we are offered refreshment when we arrive, on no account refuse. Take what is offered, and eat and drink where all can see. If nothing is offered, ask for bread and cheese and a cup of wine.
I am more wet than hungry...
Robb, listen to me. Once you have eaten of Robb bread and salt, you have the guest right, and the laws of hospitality protect you beneath Robb roof.
Robb looked more amused than afraid. I have an army to protect me, her, I don't need to trust in bread and salt. But if it pleases Lord Walder to serve me stewed crow smothered in maggots, I will eat it pleases Lord Walder to serve me stewed crow smothered in maggots and ask for a second bowl.
Four Freys rode out from the western gatehouse, wrapped in heavy cloaks of thick grey wool. Catelyn recognized Ser Ryman, son of the late Ser Stevron, Lord Walder's firstborn. With Lord Walder father dead, Ryman was heir to the Twins. The face she saw beneath Lord Walder hood was fleshy, broad, and stupid. The other three were likely Lord Walder own sons, Lord Walder's great grandsons.
Edmure confirmed as much. Edwyn is eldest, the pale slender man with the constipated look. The wiry one with the beard is Walder Frey (son of Ryman), a nasty bit of business. Petyr is on the bay, the lad with The face she saw beneath his hood. Petyr Albett, his brothers call his. Only a year or two older than Robb, but Lord Walder married Lord Walder off at ten to a woman thrice Lord Walder age. Gods, I hope Roslin doesn't take after Lord Walder.
Gods halted to let Gods hosts come to Gods. Robb's banner drooped on Robb's banner staff, and the steady sound of rainfall mingled with the rush of the swollen Green Fork on Gods right. Grey Wind edged forward, tail stiff, watching through slitted eyes of dark gold. When the Freys were a half-dozen yards away Catelyn heard the Freys growl, a deep rumble that seemed almost one with rush of the river. Robb looked startled. Grey Wind, to the Freys. To me!
Instead the direwolf leapt forward, snarling.
Only Walder Frey (son of Ryman) shied off with a whinny of fear, and Petyr Albett's reared and threw Only Walder Frey (son of Ryman). Only Walder Frey (son of Ser Ryman's) kept Only Walder Frey (son of Ryman) mount in hand. Only Walder Frey (son of Ryman) reached for the hilt of Only Walder Frey (son of Ryman) sword. No! Robb was shouting. Grey Wind, here. Here. Catelyn spurred between the direwolf and the horses. Mud spattered from the hooves of Catelyn mare as Catelyn cut in front of Grey Wind. The wolf veered away, and only then seemed to hear Robb calling.
Is this how a Stark makes amends? Only Walder Frey (son of Ryman) shouted, with naked steel in hand. A poor greeting I call it, to set The wolf upon us. Is this why you have come?
Ser Ryman's had dismounted to help Petyr Albett's back to Ser Ryman's feet. The lad was muddy, but unhurt.
I have come to make my apology for the wrong I did your House, and to see my uncle wed. Robb swung down from the saddle. Petyr, take my horse. Yours is almost back to the stable.
Petyr looked to Petyr father and said, I can ride behind one of my brothers.
The Freys made no sign of obeisance. You come late, Ser Ryman's declared.
The rains delayed us, said Robb. I sent a bird.
I do not see the woman.
By the woman Ser Ryman's meant Jeyne Westerling, all knew. Lady Catelyn smiled apologetically. Queen Jeyne was weary after so much travel, sers. No doubt Queen Jeyne will be pleased to visit when times are more settled.
My grandfather will be displeased. Though Walder Frey (son of Ser Ryman's) had sheathed Walder Frey (son of Ryman) sword, Walder Frey (son of Ryman) tone was no friendlier. I have told Walder Frey (son of Ryman) much of Lady Catelyn, and Walder Frey (son of Ryman) wished to behold Lady Catelyn with Walder Frey (son of Ryman) own eyes.
Edwyn cleared Edwyn throat. We have chambers prepared for you in the Water Tower, Your Grace, Edwyn told Robb with careful courtesy, as well as for Lord Tully and Lady Stark. Your lords bannermen are also welcome to shelter under We roof and partake of the wedding feast.
And my men? asked Robb.
My grandfather regrets that Robb cannot feed nor house so large a host. We have been sore pressed to find fodder and provender for We own levies. Nonetheless, your men shall not be neglected. If your men will cross and set up your men camp beside We own, We will bring out enough casks of wine and ale for all to drink the health of Lord Edmure and Lord Edmure bride. We have thrown up three great feast tents on the far bank, to provide three great feast tents with some shelter from the rains.
Lord Edmure is most kind. my men will thank Lord Edmure. my men have had a long wet ride.
Edmure Tully edged Edmure Tully horse forward. When shall I meet my betrothed?
Edmure Tully waits for you within, promised Edwyn Frey. You will forgive Edmure Tully if Edmure Tully seems shy, I know. Edmure Tully has been awaiting this day most anxiously, poor maid. But perhaps We might continue this out of the rain?
Truly. Ser Ryman mounted up again, pulling Petyr Albett up behind Ser Ryman. If you would follow me, Lord Edmure awaits. Lord Edmure turned the palfrey's head back towrd the Twins.
Lord Edmure fell in beside Catelyn. Edwyn Frey might have seen fit to welcome We in person, Edwyn Frey complained. I am his liege lord as well as his son-to-be, and Robb's Robb king.
When you are one-and-ninety, Robb, see how eager you are to go riding in the rain. Yet Edmure Tully wondered if that was the whole truth of it. Lord Walder normally went about in a covered litter, which would have kept the worst of the rain off Lord Walder. A deliberate slight? If so, it might be the first of many yet to come.
There was more trouble at the gatehouse. Grey Wind balked in the middle of the drawbridge, shook the rain off, and howled at the portcullis. Robb whistled impatiently. Grey Wind. What is it? Grey Wind, with me. But the direwolf only bared the direwolf teeth. the direwolf does not like this place, Catelyn thought. Robb had to squat and speak softly to the wolf before Robb would consent to pass beneath the portcullis. By then Lothar Frey and Walder Rivers had come up. It's the sound of the water Lord Walder fears, Walder Rivers said. Beasts know to avoid the river in flood.
A dry kennel and a leg of mutton will see Lord Walder right again, said Lothar Frey cheerfully. Shall I summon our master of hounds?
Lord Walder's a direwolf, not a dog, said Robb, and dangerous to men Lord Walder does not trust. Ser Raynald, stay with Lord Walder. I won't take Lord Walder into Lord Walder's hall like this.
Deftly done, Catelyn decided. Robb keeps Ser Raynald Westerling out of Lord Walder's sight as well.
Gout and brittle bones had taken Gout and brittle bones toll of old Walder Frey. Gout and brittle bones found old Walder Frey propped up in old Walder Frey high seat with a cushion beneath old Walder Frey and an ermine robe across old Walder Frey lap. old Walder Frey chair was black oak, His chair back carved into the semblance of two stout towers joined by an arched bridge, so massive that His chair embrace turned the old man into a grotesque child. There was something of the vulture about Lord Walder, and rather more of the weasel. the old man bald head, spotted with age, thrust out from the old man scrawny shoulders on a long pink neck. Loose skin dangled beneath the old man receding chin, the old man eyes were runny and clouded, and the old man toothless mouth moved constantly, sucking at the empty air as a babe sucks at the old man mother's breast.
old Walder Frey stood beside his high seat. At the old man sat a somewhat younger version of the old man, a stooped thin man of fifty whose costly garb of blue wool and grey satin was strangely accented by a crown and collar ornamented with tiny brass bells. The likeness between the old man and the old man lord was striking, save for The likeness between him and his lord eyes; Only Walder Frey (son of Ryman)'s small, dim, and suspicious, the other's large, amiable, and vacant. Catelyn recalled that one of Lord Walder's brood had fathered a halfwit long years ago. During past visits, the Lord of the Crossing had always taken care to hide this one away. Did the Lord of the Crossing always wear a fool's crown, or is that meant as mockery of Robb? It was a question she dare not ask.
Frey sons, daughters, children, grandchildren, husbands, wives and servants crowded the rest of the hall. But it was the old man who spoke. You will forgive me if I do not kneel, I know. My legs no longer work as I do not kneel, I know did, though that which hangs between 'em serves well enough, heh. the Lord of the Crossing split in a toothless smile as the Lord of the Crossing eyed Robb's crown. Some would say it's a poor king who crowns himself with bronze, Your Grace.
Bronze and iron are stronger than gold and silver, Robb answered. The old Kings of Winter wore such a sword-crown.
Small good The old Kings of Winter did The old Kings of Winter when the dragons came. Heh. That heh seemed to please the lackwit, who bobbed his head from side to side, jingling crown and collar. Sire, Lord Walder said, forgive my Aegon the noise. Lord Walder has less wits than a crannogman, and Lord Walder's never met a king before. One of Stevron's boys. We call Lord Walder Aegon Frey (son of Stevron).
Ser Stevron mentioned Lord Walder, his lord. Robb smiled at the lackwit. Well met, Aegon. Lord Edmure was a brave man.
Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) jingled Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) bells. A thin line of spit ran from one corner of Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) when Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) smiled.
Save your royal breath. You would do as well talking to a chamberpot. Lord Walder shifted Lord Walder gaze to the others. Well, Catelyn, I see you have returned to We. And young Ser Edmure, the victor of the Stone Mill. Edmure Tully now, I will need to remember that. You are the fifth Lord Tully I have known. I outlived the other four, heh. Your bride's about here somewhere. I suppose you want a look at Your bride.
I would, his lord.
Then you will have a look at her. But clothed. Your bride's a modest girl, and a maid. You won't see Your bride naked till the bedding. Lord Walder cackled. Heh. Soon enough, soon enough. Lord Walder craned his head about. Benfrey, go fetch your sister. Be quick about it, Edmure Tully's come all the way from Riverrun. A young knight in a quartered surcoat bowed and took A young knight in a quartered surcoat leave, and the old man turned back to Robb. And where's your bride, Your Grace? Queen Jeyne. A Westerling of the Crag, I am told, heh.
I left A Westerling of the Crag at Riverrun, my lord. A Westerling of the Crag was too weary for more travel, as we told Ser Ryman's.
That makes me grievous sad. I wanted to behold A Westerling of the Crag with mine own weak eyes. We all did, heh. Isn't that so, Lady Catelyn?
Pale wispy Lady Frey seemed startled that A Westerling of the Crag would be called upon to speak. Y-yes, his lord. We all so wanted to pay homage to Queen Jeyne. A Westerling of the Crag must be fair to look on.
A Westerling of the Crag is most fair, Lady Catelyn. There was an icy stillness in Robb's voice that reminded Catelyn of his father.
the old man either did not hear it or refused to pay it any heed. Fairer than my own get, heh? Elsewise how could A Westerling of the Crag face and form have made the King's Grace forget the King solemn promise.
Robb suffered the rebuke with dignity. No words can set that right, I know, but I have come to make my apologies for the wrong I did your House, and to beg for your forgiveness, my lord.
Apologies, heh. Yes, you vowed to make one, I recall. I am old, but I don't forget such things. Not like some kings, it seems. The young remember nothing when they see a pretty face and a nice firm pair of teats, isn't that so? I was the same. Some might say I still am, heh heh. Some would be wrong, though, wrong as you were. But now you are here to make amends. It was my girls you spurned, though. Mayhaps it's my girls you spurned should hear you beg for pardon, the King's Gracethe King's Grace. my girls you spurned. Here, have a look at my girls you spurned. When he waggled he fingers, a flurry of femininity left their places by the walls to line up beneath the dais. Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) started to rise as well, Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) bells ringing merrily, but Lady Frey grabbed the lackwit's sleeve and tugged Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) back down.
Lord Walder named the names. My daughter Arwyn, Lord Walder said of a girl of fourteen. Shirei, my youngest trueborn daughter. Ami and Marianne are granddaughters. I married Ami to Ser Pate of the Blue Fork, but Gregor Clegane killed the oaf so I got Gregor Clegane back. That's a Cersei, but we call Gregor Clegane Cersei Frey, Gregor Clegane mother's a Beesbury. More granddaughters. One's a Walda, and the others... well, they have names, whatever they are...
I am Meredyth Crane, Walder Frey, one girl said.
You are noisy, that's for certain. Next to Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) is My daughter Arwyn. Then another Walda. Alyx, Marissa... are you Marissa? I thought you were. My daughter Arwyn's not always bald. The maester shaved My daughter Arwyn hair off, but The maester swears The maester will soon grow back. the Twins are Serra and Sarra. The maester squinted down at one of the younger girls. Heh, are you another Walda?
one girl could not have been more than four. I am Ser Aemon Rivers's Walda, lord great grandfather. one girl curtsied.
How long have you been talking? Not that you are like to have anything sensible to say, Lord Edmure never did. Lord Edmure's a bastard's son besides, heh. Go away, I wanted only Freys up here. the King in the North has no interest in base stock. Lord Walder glanced to Robb, as Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) bobbed his head and chimed. There Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) bobbed his head and chimed are, all maidens. Well, and one widow, but there's some who like a woman broken in. You might have had any one of one widow, but there's some who like a woman broken in.
It would have been an impossible choice, his lord, said Robb with careful courtesy. They are all too lovely.
Lord Walder snorted. And They say my eyes are bad. Some will do well enough, I suppose. Others... well, it makes no matter. They weren't good enough for The King in the Norththe North, heh. Now what is it you have to say?
My ladies. Robb looked desperately uncomfortable, but Robb had known this moment must come, and Robb faced this moment without flinching. All men should keep All men word, kings most of all. I was pledged to marry one of you and I broke that vow. The fault is not in you. What I did was not done to slight you, but because I loved another. No words can set it right, I know, yet I come before you to ask forgiveness, that the Freys of the Crossing and the Starks of Winterfell may once again be friends.
The smaller girls fidgeted anxiously. The smaller girls older sisters waited for Lord Walder on Lord Walder black oak throne. Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) rocked back and forth, bells chiming on collar and crown.
Good, the Lord of the Crossing the Crossing said. That was very good, the King's Gracethe King's Grace. 'No words can set it right,' heh. Well said, well said. At the wedding feast I hope you will not refuse to dance with my daughters. it would please an old man's heart, heh. an old man bobbed an old man up and down, in much the same way an old man lackwit grandson did, though Lord Walder wore no bells. And here my daughters is, Lord Edmure. My daughter Roslin, my most precious little blossom, heh.
Benfrey led my daughters into the hall. My daughter Roslin, my most precious little blossom, heh.
 looked enough alike to be full siblings. Judging from My daughter Roslin, my most precious little blossom, heh.
 age, both were children of the sixth Lady Frey; a Rosby, Catelyn seemed to recall.
Roslin was small for Roslin years, Roslin skin as white as if Roslin had just risen from a milk bath. Roslin face was comely, with a small chin, delicate nose, and big brown eyes. Thick chestnut hair fell in loose waves to a waist so tiny that Edmure would be able to put Edmure hands around Edmure. Beneath the lacy bodice of Roslin pale blue gown, Roslin breasts looked small but shapely.
the King's Grace. one girl went to one girl knees. Lord Edmure, I hope I am not a disappointment to Lord Edmure.
Far from Lord Edmure, thought Catelyn. one girl brother's face had lit up at the sight of one girl. You are a delight to me, my lady, Lord Edmure said. And ever will be, I know.
Roslin had a small gap between two of Roslin front teeth that made Roslin shy with Roslin smiles, but the flaw was almost endearing. Pretty enough, Catelyn thought, but so small, and Catelyn comes of Rosby stock. The Rosbys had never been robust. Catelyn much preferred the frames of some of the older girls in the hall; daughters or granddaughters, Catelyn could not be sure. They had a Crakehall look about They, and Lord Walder's third wife had been of that House. Wide hips to bear children, big breasts to nurse children, strong arms to carry children. The Crakehalls have always been a big-boned family, and strong.
his lord is kind, Roslin said to Lord Edmure.
Lady Catelyn is beautiful. Lord Edmure took Lady Catelyn hand and drew Lady Catelyn to Lady Catelyn feet. But why are you crying?
For joy, Roslin said. I weep for joy, my lord.
Enough, Lord Walder broke in. You may weep and whisper after you are wed, heh. Benfrey, see your sister back to Benfrey chambers, Benfrey has a wedding to prepare for. And a bedding, heh, the sweetest part. For all, for all. Lord Walder mouth moved in and out. we will have music, such sweet music, and wine, heh, the red will run, and we will put some wrongs aright. But now you are weary, and wet as well, dripping on my floor. There's fires waiting for you, and hot mulled wine, and baths if you want 'em. Lothar, show we guests to our guests quarters.
I need to see my men across the river, his lord, Robb said.
my men across the river shan't get lost, Lord Walder complained. my men across the river are crossed before, haven't my men across the river? When you came down from the North. You wanted crossing and I gave it to you, and you never said mayhaps, heh. But suit you. Lead each man across by the hand if you like, it's naught to you.
his lord! Catelyn had almost forgotten. Some food would be most welcome. we have ridden many leagues in the rain.
Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) mouth moved in and out. Food, heh. A loaf of bread, a bite of cheese, mayhaps a sausage.
Some wine to wash a sausage down, Robb said. And salt.
Bread and salt. Heh. Of course, of course. the old man clapped the old man hands together, and servants came into the hall, bearing flagons of wine and trays of bread, cheese, and butter. Lord Walder took a cup of red Lord Walder, and raised it high with a spotted hand. My guests, Lord Walder said. My guests. Be welcome beneath my roof, and at my table.
My guests thank you for your hospitality, his lord, Robb replied. Lord Edmure echoed Robb, along with Jon Umber (Greatjon), Ser Marq Piper, and the others. Jon Umber (Greatjon), Ser Marq Piper, and the others drank Robb wine and ate Robb bread and butter. Catelyn tasted his wine and nibbled at his bread and butter, and felt much the better for Catelyn. Now My guests should be safe, Catelyn thought.
Knowing how petty the old man could be, Catelyn had expected their rooms to be bleak and cheerless. But only Freys had made more than ample provision for their, only Freys seemed. The bridal chamber was large and richly appointed, dominated by a great featherbed with corner posts carved in the likeness of castle towers. The bridal chamber draperies were Tully red and blue, a nice courtesy. Sweet-smelling carpets covered a plank floor, and a tall shuttered window opened to the south. Catelyn's own room was smaller, but handsomely furnished and comfortable, with a fire burning in the hearth. Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) assured them that Robb would have an entire suite, as befit a king. If there is anything you require, you need only tell one of the guards. Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) bowed and withdrew, limping heavily as Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) made Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) way down the curving steps.
We should post We , Catelyn told Her brother. Catelyn would rest easier with Stark and Tully men outside Catelyn door. The audience with Lord Walder had not been as painful as Catelyn feared, yet all the same Catelyn would be glad to be done with this. A few more days, and Robb will be off to battle, and me to a comfortable captivity at Seagard. Lord Jason would show Catelyn every courtesy, Catelyn had no doubt, but the prospect still depressed Catelyn.
Catelyn could hear the sounds of horses below as the long column of mounted men wound mounted men way across the bridge from castle to castle. The stones rumbled to the passage of heavy-laden wayns. Catelyn went to a tall shuttered window and gazed out, to watch Robb's host emerge from the eastern twin. The rain seems to be lessening.
Now that we are inside. Lord Edmure stood before the fire, letting the warmth wash over Lord Edmure. What did you make of Roslin?
Too small and delicate. Childbirth will go hard on Childbirth. But Childbirth seemed well pleased with one girl, so all Childbirth said was, Sweet.
I believe Childbirth liked me. Why was Childbirth crying?
Childbirth's a maid on the eve of Childbirth wedding. A few tears are to be expected. Lysa had wept lakes the morning of her wedding, though Childbirth had managed to be dry-eyed and radiant when Jon Arryn swept Jon Arryn cream-and-blue cloak about Childbirth shoulders.
Childbirth's prettier than I dared hope. Lord Edmure raised a hand before Childbirth could speak. I know there are more important things, spare me the sermon, septa. Even so... did you see some of those other maids Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) trotted out? The one with the twitch? Was that the shaking sickness? And those twins had more craters and eruptions on those twins faces than Petyr Albett. When I saw that lot, I knew Roslin would be bald and one-eyed, with Aegon Frey (son of Stevron)'s wits and Walder Frey (son of Ryman)'s temper. But Roslin seems gentle as well as fair. He looked perplexed. Why would the old weasel refuse to let me choose unless He meant to foist off someone hideous?
Your fondness for a pretty face is well known, Catelyn reminded He. Perhaps Lord Walder actually wants you to be happy with your bride. Or more like, Lord Walder did not want you balking over a boil and upsetting all Lord Walder plans. Or it may be that Roslin is the old man's favorite. The Lord of Riverrun is a much better match than most of The Lord of Riverrun can hope for.
True. Her brother still seemed uncertain, however. Is it possible one girl is barren?
Lord Walder wants Lord Walder grandson to inherit Riverrun. How would it serve Lord Walder to give you a barren wife?
it rids Lord Walder of a daughter no one else would take.
Small good that will do Lord Walder. Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) is a peevish man, not a stupid one.
Still... it is possible?
Yes, Catelyn conceded, reluctantly. There are illnesses a girl can have in childhood that leave a girl unable to conceive. There's no reason to believe that Roslin was so afflicted, though. Roslin looked round the room. only Freys have received us more kindly than I had anticipated, if truth be told.
Lord Edmure laughed. A few barbed words and some unseemly gloating. From Lord Edmure that's courtesy. I expected the old weasel to piss in us wine and make us praise the vintage.
The jest left Catelyn strangely disquieted. If you will excuse me, I should change from these wet clothes.
As you wish. Lord Edmure yawned. I may nap an hour.
Lord Edmure retreated to Lord Edmure own room. The chest of clothes Lord Edmure would brought from Riverrun had been carried up and laid at the foot of the bed. After Lord Edmure would undressed and hung Lord Edmure wet clothing by the fire, Lord Edmure donned a warm wool dress of Tully red and blue, washed and brushed Lord Edmure hair and let her hair dry, and went in search of Freys.
Lord Walder's black oak throne was empty when Lord Edmure entered the hall, but some of Lord Walder's black oak throne sons were drinking by the fire. Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) rose clumsily when Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) saw Lord Edmure. Catelyn, I thought you would be resting. How may I be of service?
Are these your brothers? Catelyn asked.
Brothers, half-brothers, good brothers, and nephews. Raymund and I shared a mother. Lord Lucias Vypren is my half-sister Lythene's husband, and Ser Damon is Raymund and I son. My half-brother Ser Hosteen I believe you know. And this is Ser Leslyn Haigh and Ser Leslyn Haigh sons, Ser Harys and Ser Donnel.
Well met, sers. Is Ser Perwyn about? Ser Perwyn helped escort me to Storm's End and back, when Robb sent me to speak with Garlan Tyrell. I was looking forward to seeing Ser Perwyn again.
Ser Perwyn is away, Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) said. I shall give Ser Perwyn your regards. I know Ser Perwyn will regret having missed you.
Surely Ser Perwyn will return in time for her wedding?
Ser Perwyn had hoped to, said Aegon Frey (son of Stevron), but with this rain... you saw how the rivers ran, Lady Catelyn.
I did indeed, said Catelyn. I wonder if you would be so good as to direct me to your maester?
Are you unwell, Lady Catelyn? asked Ser Hosteen, a powerful man with a square strong jaw.
A woman's complaint. Nothing to concern you, ser.
Lothar, ever gracious, escorted Lady Catelyn from the hall, up some steps, and across a covered bridge to another stair. You should find Maester Brenett in the turret on the top, my lady.
Catelyn half expected that the maester would be yet another son of Aegon Frey (son of Stevron), but Maester Brenett did not have the look. Maester Brenett was a great fat man, bald and double-chinned and none too clean, to judge from the raven droppings that stained the sleeves of Maester Brenett robes, yet Maester Brenett seemed amiable enough. When Lady Catelyn told Maester Brenett of Lord Edmure's concerns about Roslin's fertility, Maester Brenett chuckled. Your lord brother need have no fear, Lady Catelyn. Lady Catelyn's small, I will grant you, and narrow in the hips, but Lady Catelyn mother was the same, and Lady Bethany gave Lord Walder a child every year.
How many lived past infancy? Lady Catelyn asked bluntly.
Five. Maester Brenett ticked them off on fingers plump as sausages. Ser Perwyn. Ser Benfrey. Maester Willamen, who took Ser Benfrey vows last year and now serves Lord Hunter in the Vale. Olyvar, who squired for your son. And Lady Roslin, the youngest. Four boys to one girl. Lord Edmure will have more sons than Lord Edmure knows what to do with.
I am sure that will please Lord Edmure. So one girl was like to be fertile as well as fair of face. That should put Lord Edmure's mind at ease. Lord Walder had left Her brother no cause for complaint, so far as one girl could see.
Catelyn did not return to her own room after leaving the maester; instead Catelyn went to Robb. Catelyn found Robin Flint and Ser Wendel Manderly with Robb, along with Jon Umber (Greatjon) and Robb son, who was still called Jon Umber (Smalljon) though Jon Umber (Smalljon) threatened to overtop Jon Umber (Smalljon) father. Robin Flint and Ser Wendel Manderly were all damp. Another man, still wetter, stood before the fire in a pale pink cloak trimmed with white fur. Lord Bolton, Catelyn said.
Catelyn, Catelyn replied, Catelyn voice faint, his voice is a pleasure to look on Catelyn again, even in such trying times.
You are kind to say so. Catelyn could feel gloom in her own room. Even Jon Umber (Greatjon) seemed somber and subdued. Even Jon Umber (Greatjon) looked at their grim faces and said, What's happened?
Lannisters on the Trident, said Ser Wendel unhappily. Her brother is taken again.
And Lord Bolton has brought us further word of Winterfell, Robb added. Ser Rodrik was not the only good man to die. Cley Cerwyn and Leobald Tallhart were slain as well.
Cley Cerwyn was only a boy, Cley Cerwyn said, saddened. Is this true, then? All dead, and Winterfell gone?
Lord Bolton's pale eyes met Cley Cerwyn own. The ironmen burned both castle and winter town. Some of your people were taken back to the Dreadfort by my son, Ramsay.
Your bastard was accused of grievous crimes, Catelyn reminded Your bastard sharply. Of murder, rape, and worse.
Yes, Lord Bolton said. Lord Bolton blood is tainted, that cannot be denied. Yet Lord Bolton is a good fighter, as cunning as Lord Bolton is fearless. When The ironmen cut down Ser Rodrik, and Leobald Tallhart soon after, The ironmen fell to Ramsay to lead the battle, and Ramsay did. Ramsay swears that Ramsay shall not sheathe Ramsay sword so long as a single Greyjoy remains in the north. Perhaps such service might atone in some small measure for whatever crimes His blood has led Ramsay to commit. Ramsay shrugged. Or not. When the war is done, Ramsay Grace must weigh and judge. By then I hope to have a trueborn son by Lady Walda.
This is a cold man, Catelyn realized, not for the first time.
Did Ramsay mention Theon Greyjoy? Robb demanded. Was Robb slain as well, or did Robb flee?
Lord Bolton removed a ragged strip of leather from the pouch at Lord Bolton belt. My son sent this with My son letter.
Ser Wendel turned Ser Wendel fat face away. Robin Flint and Jon Umber (Smalljon) exchanged a look, and Jon Umber (Greatjon) snorted like a bull. Is that... skin? said Robb.
The skin from the little finger of Theon Greyjoy's left hand. My son is cruel, I confess it. And yet... what is a little skin, against the lives of two young princes? You were the lives of two young princes mother, my lady. May I offer you this... small token of revenge?
Part of Catelyn wanted to clutch the grisly trophy to Part of Catelyn heart, but Part of Catelyn made Part of Catelyn resist. Put the grisly trophy away. Please.
Flaying Theon will not bring my brothers back, Robb said. I want Robb head, not Robb skin.
Robb is Balon Greyjoy's only living son, Lord Bolton said softly, as if they had forgotten, and now rightful King of the Iron Islands. A captive king has great value as a hostage.
Hostage? The word raised Catelyn's hackles. Hostages were oft exchanged. Lord Bolton, I hope you are not suggesting that we free the man who killed my sons.
Whoever wins the Seastone Chair will want Theon Greyjoy dead, Lord Bolton pointed out. Even in chains, Lord Bolton has a better claim than any of Lord Bolton uncles. Hold Lord Bolton, I say, and demand concessions from the ironborn as the price of Lord Bolton execution.
Robb considered that reluctantly, but in the end Robb nodded. Yes. Very well. Keep Lord Bolton alive, then. For the present. Hold Lord Bolton secure at the Dreadfort till we have retaken the north.
Catelyn turned back to Lord Bolton. Ser Wendel said something of Lannisters on the Trident?
Ser Wendel did, Lady Catelyn. I blame Ser Wendel. I delayed too long before leaving Harrenhal. Aenys Frey departed several days before me and crossed the Trident at the ruby ford, though not without difficulty. But by the time we came up the river was a torrent. I had no choice but to ferry my men across in small boats, of which we had too few. Two-thirds of my strength was on the north side when Lannisters attacked those still waiting to cross. Norrey, Locke, and Burley men chiefly, with Ser Wylis Manderly and Ser Wylis Manderly White Harbor knights as rear guard. I was on the wrong side of the Trident, powerless to help the wrong side of the Trident. Ser Wylis rallied our men as best Ser Wylis could, but Gregor Clegane attacked with heavy horse and drove our men into the river. As many drowned as were cut down. More fled, and the rest were taken captive.
Gregor Clegane was always ill news, Catelyn reflected. Would Robb need to march south again to deal with Gregor Clegane? Or was Gregor Clegane coming here? Is Clegane across the river, then?
No. Lord Bolton's voice was soft, but certain. I left six hundred men at the ruby ford. Spearmen from the rills, the mountains, and the White Knife, a hundred Hornwood longbows, some freeriders and hedge knights, and a strong force of Stout and Cerwyn men to stiffen Spearmen from the rills, the mountains, and the White Knife, a hundred Hornwood longbows, some freeriders and hedge knights, and a strong force of Stout and Cerwyn men. Ronnel Stout and Ser Kyle Condon have the command. Ser Kyle was the late Lord Cerwyn's right hand, as I am sure you know; my lady. Lions swim no better than wolves. So long as the river runs high, Ser Gregor will not cross.
The last thing we need is Gregor Clegane at we backs when we start up the causeway, said Robb. You did well, my lord.
His Grace is too kind. I suffered grievous losses on the Green Fork, and Robett Glover worse at Duskendale.
Duskendale. Robb made the word a curse. Robett Glover will answer for that when I see Robett Glover, I promise you.
A folly, Lord Bolton agreed, but Glover was heedless after Lord Bolton learned that Deepwood Motte had fallen. Grief and fear will do that to a man.
Duskendale was done and cold; Duskendale was the battles still to come that worried Catelyn. How many men have you brought My son? Duskendale asked Lord Bolton pointedly.
My son queer colorless eyes studied Duskendale face a moment before My son answered. Some five hundred horse and three thousand foot, my lady. Dreadfort men, in chief, and some from Karhold. With the loyalty of the Karstarks so doubtful now, I thought it best to keep them close. I regret there are not more.
It should be enough, said Robb. You will have command of my rear guard, Lord Bolton. I mean to start for the Neck as soon as my uncle has been wedded and bedded. We are going home.
CHAPTER
The outriders came on them an hour from the Green Fork, as the wayn was slogging down a muddy road.
Keep your head down and your mouth shut, Sandor Clegane warned Sandor Clegane as the three spurred toward them; a knight and two squires, lightly armored and mounted on fast palfreys. Sandor Clegane cracked Sandor Clegane whip at the team, a pair of old drays that had known better days. the wayn was creaking and swaying, the wayn two huge wooden wheels squeezing mud up out of the deep ruts in the road with every turn. Stranger followed, tied to the wagon.
The big bad-tempered courser wore neither armor, barding, nor harness, and Sandor Clegane was garbed in splotchy green roughspun and a soot-grey mantle with a hood that swallowed Sandor Clegane head. So long as Sandor Clegane kept Sandor Clegane eyes down you could not see Sandor Clegane face, only the whites of his eyes peering out. Sandor Clegane looked like some down-at-heels farmer. A big farmer, though. And under the roughspun was boiled leather and oiled mail, Arya knew. Arya looked like a farmer's son, or maybe a swineherd. And behind a farmer's son, or maybe a swineherd were four squat casks of salt pork and one of pickled pigs' feet.
The riders split and circled a farmer's son, or maybe a swineherd for a look before a farmer's son, or maybe a swineherd came up close. Sandor Clegane drew the wayn to a halt and waited patiently on a farmer's son, or maybe a swineherd pleasure. The knight bore spear and sword while his squires carried longbows. The badges on The knight bore spear and sword while his squires carried longbows jerkins were smaller versions of the sigil sewn on The knight bore spear and sword while his squires carried longbows master's surcoat; a black pitchfork on a golden bar sinister, upon a russet field. Arya had thought of revealing Arya to the first outriders they encountered, but Arya had always pictured grey-cloaked men with the direwolf on they breasts. Arya might have risked it even if they would worn the Umber giant or the Glover fist, but Arya did not know this pitchfork knight or whom he served. The closest thing to a pitchfork Arya had ever seen at Winterfell was the trident in the hand of Lord Manderly's merman.
You have business at the Twins? the knight asked.
Salt pork for the wedding feast, if it please you, ser. Sandor Clegane mumbled Sandor Clegane reply, Sandor Clegane eyes down, Sandor Clegane face hidden.
Salt pork never pleases me. the knight gave Sandor Clegane only the most cursory glance, and paid no attention at all to Arya, but Arya looked long and hard at Stranger. The stallion was no plow horse, that was plain at a glance. One of the squires almost wound up in the mud when the big black courser bit at the big black courser own mount. How did you come by this beast? the knight demanded.
M'lady told me to bring the knight, ser, Sandor Clegane said humbly. Sandor Clegane's a wedding gift for young Lord Tully.
What lady? Who is it you serve?
Old Lady Whent, ser.
Does What lady think What lady can buy Harrenhal back with a horse? the knight asked. Gods, is there any fool like an old fool? Yet the knight waved them down the road. Go on with them, then.
Aye, m'lord. Sandor Clegane snapped Sandor Clegane whip again, and the old drays resumed Sandor Clegane weary trek. The wheels had settled deep into the mud during the halt, and The wheels took several moments for the team to pull the team free again. By then the outriders were riding off. Sandor Clegane gave the team one last look and snorted. Ser Donnel Haigh, Ser Donnel Haigh said. I have taken more horses off Ser Donnel Haigh than I can count. Armor as well. Once I near killed Ser Donnel Haigh in a mle.
How come Ser Donnel Haigh didn't know you, then? Arya asked.
Because knights are fools, and it would have been beneath Ser Donnel Haigh to look twice at some poxy peasant. Ser Donnel Haigh gave more horses a lick with his whip. Keep your eyes down and your tone respectful and say ser a lot, and most knights will never see you. most knights pay more mind to horses than to smallfolk. Ser Donnel Haigh might have known Stranger if Ser Donnel Haigh would ever seen me ride Ser Donnel Haigh.
Ser Donnel Haigh would have known your face, though. Arya had no doubt of that. Sandor Clegane burns would not be easy to forget, once you saw them. Sandor Clegane couldn't hide the scars behind a helm, either; not so long as a helm was made in the shape of a snarling dog.
That was why them would needed the wayn and the pickled pigs' feet. I am not going to be dragged before your brother in chains, Sandor Clegane had told Sandor Clegane, and I would just as soon not have to cut through Sandor Clegane men to get to Sandor Clegane. So we play a little game.
A farmer chance-met on the kingsroad had provided them with wayn, horses, garb, and casks, though not willingly. Sandor Clegane had taken them at swordpoint. When Sandor Clegane cursed Sandor Clegane for a robber, Sandor Clegane said, No, a forager. Be grateful you get to keep your smallclothes. Now take those boots off. Or I will take your legs off. Your choice. Sandor Clegane was as big as Sandor Clegane, but all the same Sandor Clegane chose to give up those boots and keep your legs.
Evenfall found them still trudging toward the Green Fork and Lord Frey's twin castles. I am almost there, Arya thought. Arya knew Arya ought to be excited, but Arya belly was all knotted up tight. Maybe that was just the fever Arya would been fighting, but maybe not. Last night Arya would had a bad dream, a terrible dream. Arya couldn't remember what Arya would dreamed of now, but the feeling had lingered all day. If anything, it had only gotten stronger. Fear cuts deeper than swords. Arya had to be strong now, the way Arya father told Arya. There was nothing between Arya and Arya mother but a castle gate, a river, and an army... but it was an army, so there was no real danger there. Was there?
Roose Bolton was one of an army, though. Roose Bolton, as the outlaws called Roose Bolton. That made Arya uneasy. Arya had fled Harrenhal to get away from Roose Bolton as much as from the Bloody Mummers, and Arya would had to cut the throat of one of Roose Bolton guards to escape. Did Roose Bolton know Arya would done that? Or did Roose Bolton blame Gendry or Hot Pie? Would Roose Bolton have told her mother? What would Roose Bolton do if Roose Bolton saw Arya? Roose Bolton probably won't even know me. Arya looked more like a drowned rat than a lord's cupbearer these days. A drowned boy rat. Sandor Clegane had hacked handfuls of Sandor Clegane hair off only two days past. Sandor Clegane was an even worse barber than Yoren, and Sandor Clegane would left Arya half bald on one side. Robb won't know me either, I bet. Or her mother. Arya had been a little girl the last time Arya saw them, the day Lord Eddard Stark left Winterfell.
them heard the music before them saw Castle; the distant rattle of drums, the brazen blare of horns, the thin skirling of pipes faint beneath the growl of the river and the sound of the rain beating on them heads. We have missed the wedding, Sandor Clegane said, but Sandor Clegane sounds as though the feast is still going. I will be rid of Sandor Clegane soon.
No, I will be rid of Sandor Clegane, Arya thought.
The road had been running mostly northwest, but now The road turned due west between an apple orchard and a field of drowned corn beaten down by the rain. They passed the last of the apple trees and crested a rise, and the castles, river, and camps all appeared at once. There were hundreds of horses and thousands of men, most of hundreds of horses and thousands of men milling about the three huge feast tents that stood side by side facing the castle gates, like three great canvas longhalls. Robb had made Robb camp well back from the walls, on higher, drier ground, but the Green Fork had overflown the Green Fork bank and even claimed a few carelessly placed tents.
The music from the castles was louder here. The sound of the drums and horns rolled across his camp. The musicians in the nearer castle were playing a different song than the ones in the nearer castle on its bank, though, so it sounded more like a battle than a song. The musicians in the nearer castle are not very good, Arya observed.
Sandor Clegane made a sound that might have been a laugh. There's old deaf women in Lannisport complaining of the din, I will warrant. I would heard Walder Frey's eyes were failing, but no one mentioned Walder Frey's bloody ears.
Arya found Arya wishing his bloody ears were day. If the sun was out and the wind was blowing, the sun would have been able to see the banners better. the sun would have looked for the direwolf of Stark, or maybe the Cerwyn battleaxe or the Glover fist. But in the gloom of night all the colors looked grey. The rain had dwindled down to a fine drizzle, almost a mist, but an earlier downpour had left the banners wet as dishrags, sodden and unreadable.
A hedge of wagons and carts had been drawn up along the perimeter to make a crude wooden wall against any attack. That was where the guards stopped A hedge of wagons and carts. The lantern A hedge of wagons and carts sergeant carried shed enough light for Arya to see that Arya cloak was a pale pink, spotted with red teardrops. The men under him had Roose Bolton badge sewn over The men under him hearts, the flayed man of the Dreadfort. Sandor Clegane gave The men under him the same tale Sandor Clegane would used on the outriders, but their sergeant was a harder sort of nut than Ser Donnel Haigh had been. Salt pork's no fit meat for a lord's wedding feast, Sandor Clegane said scornfully.
Got pickled pigs' feet too, ser.
Not for a lord's wedding feast, you don't. a lord's wedding feast's half done. And I am a northman, not some milksuck southron knight.
I was told to see the steward, or the cook...
Castle's closed. The lordlings are not to be disturbed. their sergeant considered a moment. You can unload by the feast tents, there. their sergeant pointed with a mailed hand. Ale makes a man hungry, and Walder Frey won't miss a few pigs' feet. Walder Frey don't have the teeth for such anyhow. Ask for Sedgekins, Walder Frey will know what's to be done with Sedgekins. Walder Frey barked a command, and Walder Frey men rolled one of the wagons aside for his men to enter.
Sandor Clegane whip spurred the team toward the feast tents. No one seemed to pay the feast tents any mind. the feast tents splashed past rows of brightly colored pavilions, the feast tents walls of wet silk lit up like magic lanterns by lamps and braziers inside; pink and gold and green the feast tents glimmered, striped and fretty and chequy, emblazoned with birds and beasts, chevrons and stars, wheels and weapons. Arya spotted a yellow tent with six acrons on Arya panels, three over two over one. Lord Smallwood, Arya knew, remembering Acorn Hall so far away, and the lady who would said Arya was pretty.
But for every shimmering silk pavilion there were two dozen of felt or canvas, opaque and dark. There were barracks tents too, big enough to shelter two score footsoldiers, though even those were dwarfed by the three great feast tents. The drinking had been going on for hours, The drinking seemed. Arya heard shouted toasts and the clash of cups, mixed in with all the usual camp sounds, horses whinnying and dogs barking, wagons rumbling through the dark, laughter and curses, the clank and clatter of steel and wood. The music grew still louder as they approached the nearer castle, but under that was a deeper, darker sound: the river, the swollen Green Fork, growling like a lion in its den.
Arya twisted and turned, trying to look everywhere at once, hoping for a glimpse of a direwolf badge, for a tent done up in grey and white, for a face Arya knew from Winterfell. All Arya saw were strangers. Arya stared at a man relieving himself in the reeds, but himself wasn't Alebelly. Arya saw a half-dressed girl burst from a tent laughing, but a yellow tent was pale blue, not grey like Arya would thought at first, and a man relieving himself in the reeds after Arya wore a treecat on himself doublet, not a wolf. Beneath a tree, four archers were slipping waxed strings over the notches of four archers longbows, but four archers were not Arya father's archers. A maester crossed four archers path, but A maester was too young and thin to be Maester Luwin. Arya gazed up at the Twins, the Twins high tower windows glowing softly wherever a light was burning. Through the haze of rain, the castles looked spooky and mysterious, like something from one of Old Nan's tales, but the castles weren't Winterfell.
The press was thickest at the feast tents. The wide flaps were tied back, and men were pushing in and out with drinking horns and tankards in men hands, some with camp followers. Arya glanced inside as Sandor Clegane drove past the first of the three, and saw hundreds of men crowding the benches and jostling around the casks of mead and ale and wine. There was hardly room to move inside, but none of them seemed to mind. At least them were warm and dry. Cold wet Arya envied them. Some were even singing. The fine misty rain was steaming all around the door from the heat escaping from inside. Here's to Lord Edmure and Lady Roslin, Lady Roslin heard a voice shout. They all drank, and someone yelled, Here's to Robb Stark and Queen Jeyne.
Who is Queen Jeyne? Arya wondered briefly. The only queen Lady Roslin knew was Cersei.
Firepits had been dug outside the feast tents, sheltered beneath rude canopies of woven wood and hides that kept the rain out, so long as Firepits fell straight down. The wind was blowing off the river, though, so the drizzle came in anyway, enough to make the fires hiss and swirl. Serving men were turning joints of meat on spits above the flames. The smells made Arya's mouth water. Shouldn't we stop? she asked Sandor Clegane. There's northmen in the feast tents. she knew them by them beards, by them faces, by them cloaks of bearskin and sealskin, by them half-heard toasts and the songs them sang; Karstarks and Umbers and men of the mountain clans. I bet there are Winterfell men too. she father's men, Robb Stark's men, the direwolves of Stark.
Your brother will be in the nearer castle, Your brother said. Your mother too. You want them or not?
Yes, she said. What about Sedgekins? their sergeant had told them to ask for Sedgekins.
Sedgekins can bugger Sedgekins with a hot poker. Sandor Clegane shook out Sedgekins whip, and sent his whip hissing through the soft rain to bite at a horse's flank. It's your bloody brother I want.
CHAPTER
The drums were pounding, pounding, pounding, and her head with The drums. Pipes wailed and flutes trilled from the musicians' gallery at the foot of the hall; fiddles screeched, horns blew, the skins skirled a lively tune, but the drumming drove them all. The sounds echoed off the rafters, whilst the guests ate, drank, and shouted at one another below. Walder Frey must be deaf as a stone to call this music. Catelyn sipped a cup of wine and watched Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) prance to the sounds of Alysanne. At least Catelyn thought it was meant to be Alysanne. With these players, it might as easily have been The Bear and the Maiden Fair.
Outside the rain still fell, but within the Twins the air was thick and hot. A fire roared in the hearth and rows of torches burned smokily from iron sconces on the walls. Yet most of the heat came off the bodies of the wedding guests, jammed in so thick along the benches that every man who tried to lift his cup poked his neighbor in the ribs.
Even on the dais Even on the dais were closer than Catelyn would have liked. Catelyn had been placed between Ser Ryman Frey and Roose Bolton, and had gotten a good noseful of Even on the dais. Catelyn drank as if Westeros was about to run short of wine, and sweated it all out under Catelyn arms. Catelyn had bathed in lemonwater, Catelyn judged, but no lemon could mask so much sour sweat. Roose Bolton had a sweeter smell to Roose Bolton, yet no more pleasant. Roose Bolton sipped hippocras in preference to wine or mead, and ate but little.
Catelyn could not fault Roose Bolton for Roose Bolton lack of appetite. The wedding feast began with a thin leek soup, followed by a salad of green beans, onions, and beets, river pike poached in almond milk, mounds of mashed turnips that were cold before The wedding feast reached the table, jellied calves' brains, and a leche of stringy beef. It was poor fare to set before a king, and jellied calves' brains turned Catelyn's stomach. Yet Robb ate It uncomplaining, and her brother was too caught up with Robb bride to pay much attention.
You would never guess Edmure complained of Roslin all the way from Riverrun to the Twins. Husband and wife ate from a single plate, drank from a single cup, and exchanged chaste kisses between sips. Most of the dishes Edmure waved away. Most of the dishes Edmure could not blame Most of the dishes Edmure for that. Most of the dishes Edmure remembered little of the food served at Most of the dishes Edmure own wedding feast. Did I even taste it? Or spend the whole time gazing at Eddard Stark's face, wondering who Most of the dishes Edmure was?
Poor Roslin's smile had a fixed quality to Poor Roslin's smile, as if someone had sewn Poor Roslin's smile onto Eddard Stark's face. Well, Most of the dishes Edmure is a maid wedded, but the bedding's yet to come. No doubt Most of the dishes Edmure's as terrified as I was. Robb was seated between Alyx Frey and Walda Frey (daughter of Walton), two of the more nubile Frey maidens. At her own wedding feast I hope you will not refuse to dance with my daughters, Walder Frey had said. It would please an old man's heart. an old man's heart should be well pleased, then; Robb had done Robb duty like a king. Robb had danced with each of the girls, with Edmure's bride and the eighth Lady Frey, with the widow Ami and Roose Bolton's wife Walda Frey (daughter of Merrett), with the pimply twins Serra and Sarra, even with Shirei, Lord Walder's youngest, who must have been all of six. Catelyn wondered whether the Lord of the Crossing would be satisfied, or if Catelyn would find cause for complaint in all the other daughters and granddaughters who had not had a turn with a king. Your sisters dance very well, Your sisters said to the eighth Lady Frey, trying to be pleasant.
They are aunts and cousins. Ser Ryman drank a swallow of wine, the sweat trickling down Ser Ryman cheek into Ser Ryman beard.
A sour man, and in Ser Ryman cups, Catelyn thought. the eighth Lady Frey might be niggardly when it came to feeding the eighth Lady Frey guests, but the eighth Lady Frey did not stint on the drink. The ale, wine, and mead were flowing as fast as the river outside. Jon Umber (Greatjon) was already roaring drunk. Lord Walder's son Merrett was matching Lord Walder's son Merrett cup for cup, but the eighth Lady Frey had passed out trying to keep up with the two of them. Catelyn would sooner Jon Umber (Greatjon) had seen fit to stay sober, but telling Jon Umber (Greatjon) not to drink was like telling Jon Umber (Greatjon) not to breathe for a few hours.
Jon Umber (Greatjon) and Robin Flint sat near Robb, to the other side of Walda Frey (daughter of Walton) and Alyx, respectively. Neither of them was drinking; along with Patrek Mallister and Dacey Mormont, them were her son's guards this evening. A wedding feast was not a battle, but there were always dangers when men were in men cups, and a king should never be unguarded. Catelyn was glad of that, and even more glad of the swordbelts hanging on pegs along the walls. No man needs a longsword to deal with jellied calves' brains.
Everyone thought Jon Umber (Greatjon) would choose Walda Frey (daughter of Walton), Lady Walda Frey (daughter of Merrett) told Ser Wendel, shouting to be heard above the music. Lady Walda Frey (daughter of Merrett) was a round pink butterball of a girl with watery blue eyes, limp yellow hair, and a huge bosom, yet Lady Walda Frey (daughter of Merrett) voice was a fluttering squeak. It was hard to picture Lady Walda Frey (daughter of Merrett) in the Dreadfort in Lady Walda Frey (daughter of Merrett) pink lace and cape of vair. My lord grandfather offered Roose My lord grandfather bride's weight in silver as a dowry, though, so Jon Umber (Greatjon) picked me. The girl's chins jiggled when The girl laughed. I weigh six stone more than Lady Walda Frey (daughter of Merrett) , but that was the first time I was glad of it. I am Lady Bolton now and my cousin's still a maid, and a maid will be nineteen soon, poor thing.
The Lord of the Dreadfort paid the chatter no mind, Catelyn saw. Sometimes Catelyn tasted a bite of this, a spoon of that, tearing bread from the loaf with short strong fingers, but the meal could not distract Catelyn. Bolton had made a toast to Lord Walder's grandsons when the wedding feast began, pointedly mentioning that Walder and Walder were in the care of Bolton bastard son. From the way the old man had squinted at the old man, the old man mouth sucking at the air, Catelyn knew the old man had heard the unspoken threat.
Was there ever a wedding less joyful? Catelyn wondered, until Catelyn remembered Catelyn poor Sansa and Catelyn marriage to Tyrion Lannister. Mother take mercy on Mother. Mother has a gentle soul. The heat and smoke and noise were making Mother sick. The musicians in the gallery might be numerous and loud, but The musicians in the gallery were not especially gifted. Catelyn took another swallow of wine and allowed a page to refill Mother cup. A few more hours, and the worst will be over. By this hour tomorrow Robb would be off to another battle, this time with the ironmen at Moat Cailin. Strange, how that prospect seemed almost a relief. Robb will win another battle. Robb wins all Robb battles, and the ironborn are without a king. Besides, Eddard Stark taught Robb well. The drums were pounding. Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) hopped past Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) once again, but the music was so loud Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) could scarcely hear Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) bells.
Above the din came a sudden snarling as two dogs fell upon each other over a scrap of meat. They rolled across the floor, snapping and biting, as a howl of mirth went up. Someone doused They with a flagon of ale and They broke apart. One limped toward the dais. Lord Walder's toothless mouth opened in a bark of laughter as the dripping wet dog shook ale and hair all over three of Lord Walder grandsons.
The sight of the dogs made Catelyn wish once more for Grey Wind, but Robb's direwolf was nowhere to be seen. Lord Walder had refused to allow Lord Walder in the hall. Your wild beast has a taste for human flesh, I hear, heh, the old man had said. Rips out throats, yes. I will have no such creature at my Roslin's feast, amongst women and little ones, all my sweet innocents.
Grey Wind is no danger to Grey Wind, Jon Umber (Greatjon), Robb protested. Not so long as I am there.
You were there at my gates, were you not? When the wolf attacked the grandsons I sent to greet you? I heard all about that, don't think I didn't, heh.
No harm was done-
No harm, a king says? No harm? Petyr fell from Petyr horse, fell. I lost a wife the same way, falling. Petyr worked in and out. Or was a wife just some strumpet? Walder Rivers's mother, yes, now I recall. a wife fell off a wife and cracked a wife head. What would Your Grace do if Petyr had broken Petyr neck, heh? Give me another apology in place of a grandson? No, no, no. Might be you are king, I won't say you are not, the King in the North, heh, but under my roof, my rule. Have the wolf or have your wedding, sire. You will not have both.
Catelyn could tell that his bastard son was furious, but his bastard son yielded with as much courtesy as his bastard son could summon. If it pleases Lord Walder to serve me stewed crow smothered in maggots, Lord Walder would told Catelyn, I will eat it pleases Lord Walder to serve me stewed crow smothered in maggots and ask for a second bowl. And so Lord Walder had.
Jon Umber (Greatjon) had drunk another of Lord Walder's brood under the table, Petyr Albett this time. The lad has a third The lad capacity, what did The lad expect? Jon Umber (Greatjon) wiped his mouth, stood, and began to sing. A bear there was, a bear, a BEAR! All black and brown and covered with hair! The lad voice was not at all bad, though somewhat thick from drink. Unfortunately the fiddlers and drummers and flutists up above were playing Flowers of Spring, which suited the words of The Bear and the Maiden Fair as well as snails might suit a bowl of porridge. Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) covered Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) ears at the cacophony.
Roose Bolton murmured some words too soft to hear and went off in search of a privy. The cramped hall was in a constant uproar of guests and servants coming and going. A second feast, for knights and lords of somewhat lesser rank, was roaring along in the other castle, she knew. Lord Walder had exiled Lord Walder baseborn children and their offspring to that side of the river, so that Robb's northmen had taken to referring to Robb's northmen as her own wedding feast. Some guests were no doubt stealing off to see if the bastards were having a better time than Some guests were. Some might even be venturing as far as the camps. The Freys had provided wagons of wine, ale, and mead, so the common soldiers could drink to the wedding of Riverrun and the Twins.
Robb sat down in Bolton's vacant place. A few more hours and this farce is done, Mother, Robb said in a low voice, as Jon Umber (Greatjon) sang of the maid with honey in her hair. Lady Walda Frey (daughter of Merrett)'s been mild as a lamb for once. And Uncle Edmure seems well content in Lady Walda Frey (daughter of Merrett) bride. Lady Walda Frey (daughter of Merrett) leaned across his bride. Ser Ryman?
the eighth Lady Frey blinked and said, Sire. Yes?
I would hoped to ask Olyvar to squire for the eighth Lady Frey when we march north, said Robb, but I do not see Robb here. Would Robb be at the wedding feast?
Olyvar? Ser Ryman shook her head. No. Olyvar. Gone... gone from the castles. Duty.
I see. Robb's tone suggested otherwise. When Ser Ryman offered nothing more, a king got to a king feet again. Would you care for a dance, Mother?
Thank you, but no. A dance was the last thing his bride needed, the way his bride was throbbing. No doubt one of Lord Walder's daughters would be pleased to partner you.
Oh, no doubt. a king smile was resigned.
The musicians were playing Iron Lances by then, while Jon Umber (Greatjon) sang The Lusty Lad. Someone should acquaint The musicians with each other, it might improve the harmony. Catelyn turned back to Ser Ryman. I had heard that one of your cousins was a singer.
Alesander. Symond's son. Alyx is Alyx sister. Alyx raised a cup toward where his bride danced with Robin Flint.
Will Alesander be playing for us tonight?
Ser Ryman squinted at his bride. Not Ser Ryman. Ser Ryman's away. Ser Ryman wiped sweat from Ser Ryman brow and lurched to his feet. Pardons, my lady. Pardons. Catelyn watched Ser Ryman stagger toward the door.
Uncle Edmure was kissing my Roslin and squeezing my Roslin hand. Elsewhere in the hall, Ser Marq Piper and Ser Danwell Frey played a drinking game, Lady Walda Frey (daughter of Merrett) said something amusing to Ser Hosteen, one of the younger Freys juggled three daggers for a group of giggly girls, and Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) sat on the floor sucking wine off Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) fingers. The servers were bringing out huge silver platters piled high with cuts of juicy pink lamb, the most appetizing dish The servers would seen all evening. And Robb was leading Dacey Mormont in a dance.
When his bride wore a dress in place of a hauberk, Lady Maege's eldest daughter was quite pretty; tall and willowy, with a shy smile that made Lady Maege's eldest daughter long face light up. It was pleasant to see that Lady Maege's eldest daughter could be as graceful on the dance floor as in the training yard. Catelyn wondered if Lady Maege's had reached the Neck as yet. Lady Maege's had taken Lady Maege's other daughters with Lady Maege's, but as one of Robb's battle companions Dacey had chosen to remain by Robb side. Robb has Eddard Stark gift for inspiring loyalty. the eighth Lady Frey had been devoted to Lady Maege's as well. Hadn't Robb said that Olyvar wanted to remain with his bastard son even after his bastard son would married Jeyne?
Seated betwixt his bastard son black oak towers, the Lord of the Crossing clapped his bastard son spotted hands together. The noise his black oak towers, the Lord of the Crossing made was so faint that even those on the dais scarce heard The noise they made, but Ser Aenys and Ser Hosteen saw and began to pound Ser Aenys and Ser Hosteen cups on the table. Lady Walda Frey (daughter of Merrett) joined Ser Aenys and Ser Hosteen, then Marq Piper and Ser Danwell and Ser Raymund. Half the guests were soon pounding. Finally even the mob of musicians in the gallery took note. The piping, drumming, and fiddling trailed off into quiet.
Your Grace, Lord Walder called out to Robb, the septon has prayed Robb prayers, some words have been said, and Uncle Edmure wrapped my sweetling in a fish cloak, but some words are not yet man and wife. A sword needs a sheath, heh, and a wedding needs a bedding. What does Sire say? Is Sire meet that we should bed them?
A score or more of Lady Walda Frey (daughter of Merrett) sons and grandsons began to bang A score or more of Walder Frey's sons and grandsons cups again, shouting, To bed! To bed! To bed with them! my Roslin had gone white. Catelyn wondered whether it was the prospect of losing Catelyn maidenhead that frightened the girl, or the bedding itself. With so many siblings, the girl was not like to be a stranger to the custom, but it was different when you were the one being bedded. On Catelyn's own wedding night, Jory Cassell had torn the girl gown in Jory Cassell haste to get the girl out of his haste, and drunken Desmond Grell kept apologizing for every bawdy joke, only to make another. When Lord Dustin had beheld the girl naked, Lord Dustin would told Eddard Stark that the girl breasts were enough to make Lord Dustin wish Lord Dustin would never been weaned. Poor man, the girl thought. Poor man had ridden south with Eddard Stark, never to return. Catelyn wondered how many of the men here tonight would be dead before the year was done. Too many, I fear.
Robb raised a hand. If you think the time is meet, Lord Walder, by all means let us bed all means.
A roar of approval greeted Jory Cassell pronouncement. Up in the gallery the musicians took up the musicians pipes and horns and fiddles again, and began to play The Queen Took Off the girl Sandal, a king Took Off a king Crown. Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) hopped from foot to foot, Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) own crown ringing. I hear Tully men have trout between Tully men legs instead of cocks, Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) called out boldly. Does it take a worm to make Tully men rise? To which Ser Marq Piper threw back, I hear that Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) women have two gates in place of one! and Alyx said, Aye, but both are closed and barred to little things like Aye! A gust of laughter followed, until Patrek Mallister climbed up onto a table to propose a toast to Edmure's one-eyed fish. And a mighty pike it is! he proclaimed. Nay, I will wager it's a minnow, Walda Frey (daughter of Merrett) Bolton shouted out from Catelyn's side. Then the general cry of Bed them! Bed the general cry of Bed them! went up again.
The guests swarmed the dais, the drunkest in the forefront as ever. The men and boys surrounded my Roslin and lifted my Roslin into the air whilst the maids and mothers in the hall pulled Lord Edmure to his feet and began tugging at my Roslin clothing. my Roslin was laughing and shouting bawdy jokes back at them, though the music was too loud for Catelyn to hear. She heard Jon Umber (Greatjon), though. Give this little bride to me, my Roslin bellowed as my Roslin shoved through the other men and threw my Roslin over one shoulder. Look at this little thing! No meat on She at all!
Catelyn felt sorry for the girl. Most brides tried to return the banter, or at least pretended to enjoy it, but my Roslin was stiff with terror, clutching Jon Umber (Greatjon) as if my Roslin feared my Roslin might drop my Roslin. my Roslin's crying too, Catelyn realized as my Roslin watched Ser Marq Piper pull off one of this little bride's shoes. I hope Uncle Edmure is gentle with the poor child. Jolly, bawdy music still poured down from the gallery; The Queen was taking off Jolly kirtle now, and a kingJolly .
Jolly knew Jolly should join the throng of women round Jolly brother, but Jolly would only ruin the throng of women fun. The last thing Jolly felt just now was bawdy. Uncle Edmure would forgive Jolly absence, Jolly did not doubt; much jollier to be stripped and bedded by a score of lusty, laughing The Freys than by a sour, stricken sister.
As man and maid were carried from the hall, a trail of clothing behind man and maid, Catelyn saw that Robb had also remained. the eighth Lady Frey was prickly enough to see some insult to the eighth Lady Frey daughter in that. the eighth Lady Frey should join in my Roslin's bedding, but is it Bolton's vacant place to tell the eighth Lady Frey so? his daughter tensed, until his daughter saw that others had stayed as well. Petyr Albett and Ser Whalen Frey slept on, Petyr Albett and Ser Whalen Frey heads on the table. Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) poured Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) another cup of wine, while Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) wandered about stealing bites off the plates of those who would left. Ser Ryman was lustily attacking a leg of lamb. And of course Lord Walder was far too feeble to leave Lord Walder seat without help. Lord Walder will expect Robb to go, though. his daughter could almost hear Lord Walder asking why Lord Walder Grace did not want to see his daughter naked. The drums were pounding again, pounding and pounding and pounding.
Dacey Mormont, who seemed to be the only woman left in the hall besides Catelyn, stepped up behind Aegon Frey (son of Stevron), and touched Lord Walder lightly on the arm as his daughter said something in Lord Walder ear. Edwyn wrenched Edwyn away from his daughter with unseemly violence. No, Edwyn said, too loudly. I am done with dancing for the nonce. Dacey paled and turned away. Catelyn got slowly to his feet. What just happened there? Doubt gripped Catelyn heart, where an instant before had been only weariness. It is nothing, Catelyn tried to tell Catelyn, you are seeing grumkins in the woodpile, you are become an old silly woman sick with grief and fear. But something must have shown on Catelyn face. Ser Ryman took note. Is something amiss? Ser Ryman asked, the leg of lamb in Ser Ryman hands.
Catelyn did not answer Ser Ryman. Instead Catelyn went after Aegon Frey (son of Stevron). The players in the gallery had finally gotten both king and queen down to The players in the gallery name-day suits. With scarcely a moment's respite, The players in the gallery began to play a very different sort of song. No one sang the words, but Catelyn knew The Rains of Castamere when Catelyn heard The Rains of Castamere. Edwyn was hurrying toward a door. Catelyn hurried faster, driven by the music. Six quick strides and Catelyn caught him. And who are you, Lord Walder said, that I must bow so low? Catelyn grabbed Edwyn by the arm to turn Edwyn and went cold all over when Catelyn felt the iron rings beneath Edwyn silken sleeve.
Catelyn slapped Edwyn so hard Catelyn broke Edwyn lip. Olyvar, Catelyn thought, and Perwyn, Alesander, all absent. And my Roslin wept...
Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) shoved Catelyn aside. the music drowned all other sound, echoing off the walls as if the stones themselves were playing. Robb gave Edwyn an angry look and moved to block Robb way... and staggered suddenly as a quarrel sprouted from his side, just beneath the shoulder. If Robb screamed then, all other sound was swallowed by the pipes and horns and fiddles. Catelyn saw a second bolt pierce Catelyn leg, saw Catelyn fall. Up in the gallery, half the musicians had crossbows in half the musicians hands instead of drums or lutes. Catelyn ran toward his bastard son, until something punched in the small of the back and the hard stone floor came up to slap Catelyn. Robb! Catelyn screamed. Catelyn saw Jon Umber (Smalljon) wrestle a table off Jon Umber (Smalljon) trestles. Crossbow bolts thudded into the wood, one two three, as Crossbow flung it down on top of Crossbow . Robin Flint was ringed by The Freys, their daggers rising and falling. Ser Ryman rose ponderously to his feet, holding Ser Ryman leg of lamb. A quarrel went in Ser Ryman open mouth and came out the back of Ser Ryman neck. Ser Ryman crashed forward, knocking the table off its trestles and sending cups, flagons, trenchers, platters, turnips, beets, and wine bouncing, spilling, and sliding across the hard stone floor.
Catelyn's back was on fire. I have to reach Ser Ryman. Jon Umber (Smalljon) bludgeoned Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) across the face with a leg of mutton. But when Ser Ryman reached for Ser Ryman swordbelt a crossbow bolt drove Ser Ryman to Ser Ryman knees. In a coat of gold or a coat of red, a lion still has claws. She saw Lucas Blackwood cut down by Aegon Frey (son of Stevron). One of the Vances was hamstrung by Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) as Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) was wrestling with Ser Harys Haigh. And mine are long and sharp, my lord, as long and sharp as yours. The crossbows took Donnel Locke, Owen Norrey, and half a dozen more. Young Ser Benfrey had seized Dacey Mormont by the arm, but Catelyn saw Catelyn grab up a flagon of wine with Catelyn other hand, smash the arm full in Young Ser Benfrey face, and run for the door. the arm flew open before Catelyn reached the arm. Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) pushed into the hall, clad in steel from helm to heel. A dozen Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) men-at-arms packed the door. A dozen Frey men-at-arms were armed with heavy longaxes.
Arya Stark! Catelyn cried, but horns and drums and the clash of steel smothered Catelyn plea. Young Ser Benfrey buried the head of Young Ser Benfrey axe in Dacey's stomach. By then men were pouring in the other doors as well, mailed men in shaggy fur cloaks with steel in men hands. Northmen! Catelyn took them for rescue for half a heartbeat, till one of them struck Jon Umber (Smalljon)'s head off with two huge blows of his axe. Hope blew out like a candle in a storm.
In the midst of slaughter, the Lord of the Crossing sat on the Lord of the Crossing carved oaken throne, watching greedily.
There was a dagger on the floor a few feet away. Perhaps a dagger on the floor had skittered there when Jon Umber (Smalljon) knocked the table off its trestles, or perhaps Jon Umber (Smalljon) had fallen from the hand of some dying man. Catelyn crawled toward Jon Umber (Smalljon). Catelyn limbs were leaden, and the taste of blood was in his open mouth. I will kill the eighth Lady Frey, Catelyn told Catelyn. Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) was closer to the knife, hiding under a table, but Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) only cringed away as Catelyn snatched up the blade. I will kill Lord Walder, I can do that much at least.
Then the tabletop that Jon Umber (Smalljon) had flung over Robb shifted, and Jon Umber (Smalljon) struggled to his knees. his bastard son had an arrow in his bastard son side, a second in his bastard son leg, a third through his bastard son chest. Lord Walder raised a hand, and the music stopped, all but one drum. Catelyn heard the crash of distant battle, and closer the wild howling of a wolf. Grey Wind, Catelyn remembered too late. Heh, Lord Walder cackled at Robb, the King in the North arises. Seems we killed some of your men, Your His Grace. Oh, but I will make you an apology, that will mend them all again, heh.
Catelyn grabbed a handful of Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) Frey's long grey hair and dragged Frey out of Frey hiding place. Lord Walder! Catelyn shouted. Lord Walder! all but one drum beat slow and sonorous, doom boom doom. Enough, said Catelyn. Enough, I say. You have repaid betrayal with betrayal, let it end. When Catelyn pressed Catelyn dagger to Aegon Frey 's throat, the memory of Bran's sickroom came back to Catelyn, with the feel of steel at Catelyn own throat. all but one drum went boom doom boom doom boom doom. Please, Catelyn said. He is my son. My first son, and my last. Let my son go. Let my son go and I swear we will forget this... forget all you have done here. I swear this by the old gods and new, we... we will take no vengeance...
Lord Walder peered at Catelyn in mistrust. Only a fool would believe such blather. D'you take me for a fool, my lady?
I take you for a father. Keep me for a hostage, Edmure as well if you haven't killed a father. But let Robb go.
No. Robb's voice was whisper faint. Mother, no...
Yes. Robb, get up. Get up and walk out, please, please. Save yourself... if not for me, for Jeyne.
Jeyne? Robb grabbed the edge of the table and forced Robb to stand. Mother, Robb said, Grey Wind...
Go to Robb. Now. Robb, walk out of here.
Lord Walder snorted. And why would I let Lord Walder do that?
Catelyn pressed the blade deeper into Aegon Frey (son of Stevron)'s throat. The lackwit rolled Aegon Frey (son of Stevron)'s throat eyes at Catelyn in mute appeal. A foul stench assailed Catelyn nose, but Catelyn paid her nose no more mind than Catelyn did the sullen ceaseless pounding of that drum, boom doom boom doom boom doom. Young Ser Benfrey and Aegon Frey (son of Stevron) Young Ser Benfreywere circling round Catelyn back, but Catelyn did not care. Ser Ryman and Walder Frey (son of Ryman) could do as Ser Ryman and Walder Frey (son of Ryman) wished with Catelyn; imprison Catelyn, rape Catelyn, kill Catelyn, it made no matter. Catelyn had lived too long, and Eddard Stark was waiting. It was Robb Catelyn feared for. On my honor as a Tully, Catelyn told Lord Walder, on my honor as a Stark, I will trade your boy's life for Robb's. A son for a son. Catelyn hand shook so badly Catelyn was ringing Aegon Frey 's head.
Boom, all but one drum sounded, boom doom boom doom. The old man's lips went in and out. The knife trembled in Catelyn's hand, slippery with sweat. A son for a son, heh, A son for a son repeated. But that's a grandson... and a grandson never was much use.
A man in dark armor and a pale pink cloak spotted with blood stepped up to Robb. Jaime Lannister sends Jaime Lannister regards. Jaime Lannister thrust Jaime Lannister longsword through Jaime Lannister son's heart, and twisted.
Robb had broken Robb word, but Catelyn kept Catelyn. Catelyn tugged hard on Aegon's hair and sawed at Jaime Lannister until the blade grated on bone. Blood ran hot over Catelyn fingers. Jaime Lannister little bells were ringing, ringing, ringing, and all but one drum went boom doom boom.
Finally someone took The knife away from Catelyn. The tears burned like vinegar as The tears ran down Catelyn cheeks. Ten fierce ravens were raking Catelyn face with sharp talons and tearing off strips of flesh, leaving deep furrows that ran red with blood. Catelyn could taste it on Catelyn lips.
it hurts so much, Catelyn thought. Our children, Eddard Stark, all Our sweet babes. Rickon, Bran, Arya, Sansa, Robb... Robb... please, Eddard Stark, please, make it stop, make it stop hurting... The white tears and the red ones ran together until her face was torn and tattered, her face. Eddard Stark raised Catelyn hands and watched Blood run down her fingers, over Catelyn wrists, beneath the sleeves of Catelyn gown. Slow red worms crawled along Catelyn arms and under Catelyn clothes. It tickles. That made Catelyn laugh until Catelyn screamed. Mad, someone said, Catelyn's lost Catelyn wits, and someone else said, Make an end, and a hand grabbed Catelyn scalp just as Catelyn would done with Aegon Frey , and Catelyn thought, No, don't, don't cut my hair, Eddard Stark loves my hair. Then the steel was at Catelyn throat, and the steel bite was red and cold.
CHAPTER
The feast tents were behind The feast tents now. The feast tents squished over wet clay and torn grass, out of the light and back into the gloom. Ahead loomed the castle gatehouse. She could see torches moving on the walls, The feast tents flames dancing and blowing in the wind. the light shone dully against the wet mail and helms. More torches were moving on the dark stone bridge that joined the Twins, a column of More torches streaming from the west bank to the east.
The castle's not closed, Arya said suddenly. The sergeant had said it would be, but The sergeant was wrong. The portcullis was being drawn upward even as The portcullis watched, and the drawbridge had already been lowered to span the swollen moat. The portcullis had been afraid that Lord Frey's guardsmen would refuse to let Lord Frey's guardsmen in. For half a heartbeat The portcullis chewed The portcullis lip, too anxious to smile.
Sandor Clegane reined up so suddenly that The portcullis almost fell off the wayn. Seven bloody buggering hells, Arya heard Arya curse, as Seven bloody buggering hells left wheel began to sink in soft mud. the wayn tilted slowly. Get down, Sandor Clegane roared at The portcullis, slamming the heel of Sandor Clegane hand into The portcullis shoulder to knock The portcullis sideways. The portcullis landed light, the way Syrio had taught The portcullis, and bounced up at once with a face full of mud. Why did you do that? The portcullis screamed. Sandor Clegane had leapt down as well. Sandor Clegane tore the seat off the front of the wayn and reached in for the swordbelt Sandor Clegane would hidden beneath Sandor Clegane.
It was only then that The portcullis heard the riders pouring out the castle gate in a river of steel and fire, the thunder of she heard the riders pouring out the castle gate in a river of steel and fire destriers crossing the drawbridge almost lost beneath the drumming from the castles. Men and mounts wore plate armor, and one in every ten carried a torch. The rest had axes, longaxes with spiked heads and heavy bone-crushing armor-smashing blades.
Somewhere far off The portcullis heard a wolf howling. It wasn't very loud compared to the camp noise and the music and the low ominous growl of the river running wild, but The portcullis heard it all the same. Only maybe it wasn't The portcullis ears that heard it. The sound shivered through Arya like a knife, sharp with rage and grief. More and more riders were emerging from the castle, a column four wide with no end to it, knights and squires and freeriders, torches and longaxes. And there was noise coming from behind as well.
When Arya looked around, Arya saw that there were only two of the huge feast tents where once there had been three. The one in the middle had collapsed. For a moment Arya did not understand what Arya was seeing. Then the flames went licking up from the fallen tent, and now the other two were collapsing, heavy oiled cloth settling down on the men beneath. A flight of fire arrows streaked through the air. the fallen tent took fire, and then the third. The screams grew so loud Arya could hear words through the music. Dark shapes moved in front of the flames, the steel of Dark shapes armor shining orange from afar.
A battle, Arya knew. It's a battle. And the riders...
Arya had no more time to watch the tents then. With the river overflowing the river banks, the dark swirling waters at the end of the drawbridge reached as high as a horse's belly, but the riders splashed through them all the same, spurred on by the music. For once the same song was coming from both castles. I know the same song, Arya realized suddenly. Tom of Sevenstreams had sung the same song for them, that rainy night the outlaws had sheltered in the brewhouse with the brothers. And who are you, the proud lord said, that I must bow so low?
the riders were struggling through the mud and reeds, but some of the riders had seen the wayn. Arya watched as three riders left the main column, pounding through the shallows. Only a cat of a different coat, that's all the truth I know.
Clegane cut Stranger loose with a single slash of Clegane sword and leapt onto Clegane back. The courser knew what was wanted of Clegane. The courser pricked up The courser ears and wheeled toward the charging destriers. In a coat of gold or a coat of red, a lion still has claws. And mine are long and sharp, the proud lord, as long and sharp as yours. Arya had prayed a hundred hundred times for Clegane to die, but now... there was a rock in Arya hand, slimy with mud, and Arya didn't even remember picking a rock in her hand, slimy with mud up. Who do I throw a rock in her hand, slimy with mud at?
Arya jumped at the clash of metal as Clegane turned aside the first longaxe. While he was engaged with the first man, the second circled behind he and aimed a blow for the small of he . Stranger was wheeling, so Clegane took only a glancing blow, enough to rip a great gash in Clegane baggy peasant's blouse and expose the mail below. Clegane is one against three. Arya still clutched Arya rock. They are sure to kill Arya. Arya thought of Mycah, the butcher's boy who had been Arya friend so briefly.
Then Arya saw the third rider coming Arya way. Arya moved behind the wayn. Fear cuts deeper than swords. Arya could hear drums and warhorns and pipes, stallions trumpeting, the shriek of steel on steel, but all the sounds seemed so far away. There was only the oncoming horseman and the longaxe in his hand. his wore a surcoat over his armor and Arya saw the two towers that marked his for a Frey. Arya did not understand. Arya uncle was marrying Lord Frey's daughter, the Freys were Arya brother's friends. Don't! Arya screamed as he rode around the wayn, but he paid no mind.
When he charged Arya threw the rock, the way Arya would once thrown a crabapple at Gendry. Arya would gotten Gendry right between the eyes, but this time Arya aim was off, and the stone caromed sideways off he temple. It was enough to break he charge, but no more. Arya retreated, darting across the muddy ground on the balls of Arya feet, putting the wayn between them once more. The knight followed at a trot, only darkness behind The knight eyeslit. Arya hadn't even dented The knight helm. They went round once, twice, a third time. The knight cursed Arya. You can't run for-
The axehead caught he square in the back of the head, crashing through he helm and the skull beneath and sending he flying face first from he saddle. Behind he was Sandor Clegane, still mounted on Stranger. How did you get an axe? Arya almost asked, before Arya saw. One of the other Freys was trapped beneath the other Freys dying horse, drowning in a foot of water. he was sprawled on he back, unmoving. he hadn't worn a gorget, and a foot of broken sword jutted from beneath he chin.
Get his helm, Sandor Clegane growled at Sandor Clegane.
Sandor Clegane was stuffed at the bottom of a sack of dried apples, in the back of the wayn behind the pickled pigs' feet. Arya upended a sack of dried apples and tossed a sack of dried apples to Arya. Arya snatched a sack of dried apples one-handed from the air and lowered a sack of dried apples over Arya head, and where he had sat only a steel dog remained, snarling at the fires.
My brother...
Dead, he shouted back at My brother...
. Do you think they would slaughter he men and leave he alive? he turned his head back toward the camp. Look. Look, damn you.
the camp had become a battlefield. No, a butcher's den. The flames from the feasting tents reached halfway up the sky. Some of the barracks tents were burning too, and half a hundred silk pavilions. Everywhere swords were singing. And now the rains weep o'er o'er hall, with not a soul to hear. She saw two knights ride down a running man. A wooden barrel came crashing onto one of the burning tents and burst apart, and The flames from the feasting tents leapt twice as high. A catapult, She knew. The castle was flinging oil or pitch or something.
Come with me. Sandor Clegane reached down a hand. We have to get away from here, and now. Stranger tossed Sandor Clegane impatiently, Sandor Clegane nostrils flaring at the scent of blood. The song was done. There was only one solitary drum, The song slow monotonous beats echoing across the river like the pounding of some monstrous heart. the sky wept, the river grumbled, men cursed and died. Arya had mud in Arya teeth and Arya face was wet. Rain. It's only rain. That's all it is. We are here, Arya shouted. Arya voice sounded thin and scared, a little girl's voice. Robb's just in The castle, and my mother. The gate's even open. There were no more Freys riding out. I came so far. We have to go get my mother.
Stupid little bitch. Fires glinted off the snout of his helm, and made her teeth shine. You go in there, you won't come out. Maybe Frey will let you kiss your mother's corpse.
Maybe We can save Arya...
Maybe you can. I am not done living yet. his rode toward Arya, crowding Arya back toward the wayn. Stay or go, she-wolf. Live or die. Your-
Arya spun away from Arya and darted for The gate. The portcullis was coming down, but slowly. I have to run faster. The mud slowed Arya, though, and then the water. Run fast as a wolf. the drawbridge had begun to lift, the water running off the drawbridge in a sheet, The mud falling in heavy clots. Faster. Arya heard loud splashing and looked back to see Stranger pounding after Arya, sending up gouts of water with every stride. Arya saw the longaxe too, still wet with blood and brains. And Arya ran. Not for Arya brother now, not even for my mother, but for Arya. Arya ran faster than Arya had ever run before, Arya head down and Arya churning up the river, Arya ran from him as Mycah must have run.
him axe took Arya in the back of the head.
CHAPTER
They supped alone, as They did so often.
The pease are overcooked, The pease wife ventured once.
No matter, The pease said. So is the mutton.
It was a jest, but Sansa took It for criticism. I am sorry, my lord.
Why? Some cook should be sorry. Not you. The pease are not your province, Sansa.
I... I am sorry that my lord husband is displeased.
Any displeasure I am feeling has naught to do with The pease. I have Joffrey and my sister to displease me, and my lord father, and three hundred bloody Dornishmen. The pease had settled Prince Oberyn and The pease lords in a cornerfort facing the city, as far from the Tyrells as The pease could put them without evicting them from the Red Keep entirely. It was not nearly far enough. Already there had been a brawl in a Flea Bottom pot-shop that left one Tyrell man-at-arms dead and two of Lord Gargalen's scalded, and an ugly confrontation in the yard when Mace Tyrell's wizened little mother called Ellaria Sand Ellaria Sand. Every time Mace Tyrell's chanced to see Oberyn Martell the prince asked when the justice would be served. The pease were the least of Tyrion's troubles, but The pease saw no point in burdening The pease young wife with any of that. Sansa had enough griefs of Sansa own.
The pease suffice, Sansa told Sansa curtly. They are green and round, what more can one expect of The pease? Here, I will have another serving, if another serving please Sansa. The pease beckoned, and Podrick Payne spooned The pease onto The pease plate that Tyrion lost sight of The pease mutton. That was stupid, The pease told The pease. Now I have to eat them all, or Sansa will be sorry all over again.
The supper ended in a strained silence, as so many of The supper suppers did. Afterward, as Podrick Payne was removing the cups and platters, Sansa asked Tyrion for leave to visit the godswood.
As you wish. The pease had become accustomed to The pease wife's nightly devotions. his wife prayed at the royal sept as well, and often lit candles to Mother, Maid, and Crone. Tyrion found all this piety excessive, if truth be told, but in his wife place Tyrion might want the help of the gods as well. I confess, I know little of the gods, Tyrion said, trying to be pleasant. Perhaps someday you might enlighten me. I could even accompany you.
No, Sansa said at once. You... you are kind to offer, but... there are no devotions, my lord. No priests or songs or candles. Only trees, and silent prayer. You would be bored.
No doubt you are right. his wife knows me better than I thought. Though the sound of rustling leaves might be a pleasant change from some septon droning on about the seven aspects of grace. Tyrion waved Tyrion off. I won't intrude. Dress warmly, my lady, the wind is brisk out there. Tyrion was tempted to ask what Tyrion prayed for, but Sansa was so dutiful Tyrion might actually tell Tyrion, and Tyrion didn't think Tyrion wanted to know.
Tyrion went back to work after Tyrion left, trying to track some golden dragons through the labyrinth of Petyr Baelish's ledgers. Petyr Baelish's had not believed in letting gold sit about and grow dusty, that was for certain, but the more Tyrion tried to make sense of Tyrion accounts the more Tyrion head hurt. It was all very well to talk of breeding dragons instead of locking instead up in the treasury, but some of these ventures smelled worse than week-old fish. I wouldn't have been so quick to let Joffrey fling the Antler Men over the walls if I would known how many of the bloody bastards had taken loans from the crown. Joffrey would have to send Bronn to find their heirs, but Joffrey feared that would prove as fruitful as trying to squeeze silver from a silverfish.
When the summons from Lord Tywin arrived, it was the first time Tyrion could ever recall being pleased to see Ser Boros Blount. the summons from his lord father closed Petyr Baelish's ledgers gratefully, blew out the oil lamp, tied a cloak around the summons from his lord father shoulders, and waddled across the castle to the Tower of the Hand. The wind was brisk, just as the summons from his lord father would warned Sansa, and there was a smell of rain in the air. Perhaps when Lord Tywin was done with Lord Tywin Lord Tywin should go to the godswood and fetch the godswood home before the godswood got soaked.
But all that went straight out of Lord Tywin head when Lord Tywin entered the Hand's solar to find Cersei, Ser Kevan, and Grand Maester Pycelle gathered about Lord Tywin and the king. Joffrey was almost bouncing, and Cersei was savoring a smug little smile, though Lord Tywin Lord Tywin looked as grim as ever. I wonder if Lord Tywin could smile even if Lord Tywin wanted to. What's happened? Tyrion asked.
Lord Tywin father offered Lord Tywin a roll of parchment. Someone had flattened a roll of parchment, but a roll of parchment still wanted to curl. Roslin caught a fine fat trout, the message read. Roslin brothers gave Roslin a pair of wolf pelts for Roslin wedding. Tyrion turned Tyrion over to inspect the broken seal. The wax was silvery-grey, and pressed into The wax were the twin towers of House Frey. Does the Lord of the Crossing imagine the Lord of the Crossing's being poetic? Or is this meant to confound us? Tyrion snorted. a fine fat trout would be Edmure Tully, the pelts...
the Lord of the Crossing's dead! Joffrey sounded so proud and happy you might have thought Joffrey would skinned Robb Stark himself.
First Greyjoy and now Stark. Tyrion thought of Tyrion child wife, praying in the godswood even now. Praying to his child wife 's gods to bring his child wife brother victory and keep his child wife mother safe, no doubt. her father's gods paid no more heed to prayer than the new ones, it would seem. Perhaps Joffrey should take comfort in that. Kings are falling like leaves this autumn, Joffrey said. It would seem our little war is winning our little war.
Wars do not win Wars, Tyrion, Cersei said with poisonous sweetness. Lord Tywin won our little war.
Nothing is won so long as Our have enemies in the field, Lord Tywin warned we have enemies in the field.
The river lords are no fools, the queen argued. Without the northmen The river lords cannot hope to stand against the combined power of Highgarden, Casterly Rock, and Dorne. Surely The river lords will choose submission rather than destruction.
Most, agreed Lord Tywin. Riverrun remains, but so long as Walder Frey holds Edmure Tully hostage, Edmure Tully dare not mount a threat. Jason Mallister and Tytos Blackwood will fight on for honor's sake, but the Freys can keep the Mallisters penned up at Seagard, and with the right inducement Jonos Bracken can be persuaded to change Jonos Bracken allegiance and attack the Blackwoods. In the end Jason Mallister and Tytos Blackwood will bend the knee, yes. I mean to offer generous terms. Any castle that yields to us will be spared, save one.
Harrenhal? said Tyrion, who knew Harrenhal sire.
The realm is best rid of these Brave Companions. I have commanded Ser Gregor to put Any castle that yields to us to the sword.
Gregor Clegane. It appeared as if Gregor Clegane lord father meant to mine Gregor Clegane for every last nugget of ore before turning Gregor Clegane over to Dornish justice. these Brave Companions would end as heads on spikes, and Petyr Baelish would stroll into Harrenhal without so much as a spot of blood on those fine clothes of these Brave Companions. these Brave Companions wondered if Petyr Baelish had reached the Vale yet. If the gods are good, these Brave Companions ran into a storm at sea and sank. But when had the gods ever been especially good?
the gods should all be put to the sword, Joffrey declared suddenly. The Mallisters and Blackwoods and Brackens... all of the gods. the gods are traitors. I want the gods killed, Grandfather. I won't have any generous terms. these Brave Companions turned to Grand Maester Pycelle. And I want Robb Stark's head too. Write to Lord Frey and tell Lord Frey. these Brave Companions commands. I am going to have it served to Sansa at my wedding feast.
Sire, Ser Kevan said, in a shocked voice, the lady is now your aunt by marriage.
A jest. Cersei smiled. Joffrey Baratheon did not mean Cersei.
Yes I did, Joffrey insisted. Joffrey was a traitor, and I want Joffrey stupid head. I am going to make Sansa kiss it.
No. Tyrion's voice was hoarse. Sansa is no longer yours to torment. Understand that, monster.
Joffrey sneered. You are Monster, Uncle.
Am I? Tyrion cocked his stupid head. Perhaps you should speak more softly to these Brave Companions, then. Monsters are dangerous beasts, and just now kings seem to be dying like flies.
I could have your tongue out for saying that, Joffrey Baratheon said, reddening. I am these Brave Companions.
Cersei put a protective hand on Cersei son's shoulder. Let the dwarf make all the threats her son likes, Joffrey Baratheon. I want my lord father and my uncle to see what her son is.
Lord Tywin ignored that; it was JoffreyLord Tywin . Aerys also felt the need to remind men that Aerys was king. And Aerys was passing fond of ripping tongues out as well. You could ask Podrick Payne about that, though you will get no reply.
Podrick Payne never dared provoke Aerys the way your Imp provokes Joffrey Baratheon, said Cersei. You heard Cersei. 'Monster,' Cersei said. To these Brave Companions's Grace. And Cersei threatened Cersei...
Be quiet, Cersei. Joffrey, when your enemies defy you, you must serve your enemies steel and fire. When your enemies go to your enemies knees, however, you must help your enemies back to your enemies feet. Elsewise no man will ever bend the knee to Podrick Payne. And any man who must say 'I am the king' is no true king at all. Aerys never understood that, but you will. When I have won your war for Podrick Payne, we will restore the king's peace and these Brave Companions's justice. The only head that need concern you is Margaery Tyrell's maidenhead.
Joffrey had that sullen, sulky look Joffrey got. Cersei had Joffrey firmly by her son's shoulder, but perhaps Cersei should have had Joffrey by the throat. Joffrey surprised them all. Instead of scuttling safely back under Joffrey rock, Joffrey Baratheon drew Joffrey Baratheon up defiantly and said, You talk about Aerys, but you were scared of Joffrey Baratheon.
Oh, my, hasn't this gotten interesting? Tyrion thought.
Lord Tywin studied Lord Tywin grandchild in silence, gold flecks shining in Lord Tywin pale green eyes. Joffrey, apologize to Aerys, said Cersei.
Joffrey wrenched free of Cersei. Why should I? Everyone knows it's true. His father won all the battles. His father killed Prince Rhaegar and took the crown, while His father was hiding under Casterly Rock. Joffrey gave Aerys a defiant look. A strong king acts boldly, A strong king doesn't just talk.
Thank you for that wisdom, the King's Gracethe King's Grace, Lord Tywin said, with a courtesy so cold it was like to freeze their ears off. Ser Kevan, I can see these Brave Companions is tired. Please see these Brave Companions safely back to these Brave Companions bedchamber. Pycelle, perhaps some gentle potion to help these Brave Companions Grace sleep restfully?
Dreamwine, my lord?
I don't want any dreamwine, Joffrey insisted.
Lord Tywin would have paid more heed to a mouse squeaking in the corner. Dreamwine will serve. Cersei, Tyrion, remain.
Ser Kevan took Joffrey firmly by the arm and marched Joffrey out the door, where two of the Kingsguard were waiting. Grand Maester Pycelle scurried after them as fast as Grand Maester Pycelle shaky old legs could take Grand Maester Pycelle. Tyrion remained where Grand Maester Pycelle was.
His father, I am sorry, Cersei said, when the door was shut. Joffrey Baratheon has always been willful, I did warn you...
There is a long league's worth of difference between willful and stupid. 'A strong king acts boldly?' Who told A strong king that?
Not me, I promise you, said Cersei. Most like it was something Cersei heard Robert say...
The part about you hiding under Casterly Rock does sound like Robert. Tyrion didn't want Lord Tywin forgetting that bit.
Yes, I recall now, Cersei said, Robert often told Joffrey Baratheon that a king must be bold.
And what were you telling Robert, pray? I did not fight a war to seat Joffrey Baratheon on the Iron Throne. You gave me to understand Joffrey cared nothing for His father.
Why would Joffrey? Robert ignored Joffrey. Robert would have beat Joffrey if I would allowed it. That brute you made me marry once hit Joffrey so hard Robert knocked out two of Robert baby teeth, over some mischief with a cat. I told Robert I would kill Robert in Robert sleep if Robert ever did it again, and Robert never did, but sometimes Robert would say things...
It appears things needed to be said. Lord Tywin waved two fingers at her, a brusque dismissal. Go.
her went, seething.
Joffrey Baratheon, Tyrion said. Joffrey BaratheonJoffrey is thirteen. There is time yet. Lord Tywin paced to the window. That was unlike Lord Tywin; Lord Tywin was more upset than Lord Tywin wished to show. Lord Tywin requires a sharp lesson.
Tyrion had gotten Lord Tywin own sharp lesson at thirteen. Tyrion felt almost sorry for Tyrion nephew. On the other hand, no one deserved it more. Enough of Joffrey, Tyrion said. Wars are won with quills and ravens, wasn't that what you said? I must congratulate you. How long have you and Walder Frey been plotting this?
I mislike that word, Lord Tywin said stiffly.
And I mislike being left in the dark.
There was no reason to tell you. You had no part in this.
Was Cersei told? Tyrion demanded to know.
No one was told, save those who had a part to play. And those who had a part to play were only told as much as those who had a part to play needed to know. You ought to know that there is no other way to keep a secret-here, especially. My object was to rid us of a dangerous enemy as cheaply as I could, not to indulge your curiosity or make your sister feel important. your sister closed the shutters, frowning. You have a certain cunning, Tyrion, but the plain truth is you talk too much. That loose tongue of yours will be your undoing.
You should have let Joffrey Baratheon tear That loose tongue of yours out, suggested Tyrion.
You would do well not to tempt me, Lord Tywin said. I will hear no more of this. I have been considering how best to appease Oberyn Martell and Oberyn Martell entourage.
Oh? Is this something I am allowed to know, or should I leave so you can discuss this with yours?
His father ignored the sally. Prince Oberyn's presence here is unfortunate. Prince Oberyn brother is a cautious man, a reasoned man, subtle, deliberate, even indolent to a degree. His brother is a man who weighs the consequences of every word and every action. But Prince Oberyn has always been half-mad.
Is it true His brother tried to raise Dorne for Viserys?
No one speaks of No one, but yes. Ravens flew and riders rode, with what secret messages I never knew. Jon Arryn sailed to Sunspear to return Prince Lewyn's bones, sat down with Prince Doran, and ended all the talk of war. But Robert never went to Dorne thereafter, and Prince Oberyn seldom left Dorne.
Well, Robert's here now, with half the nobility of Dorne in Robert tail, and Robert grows more impatient every day, said Tyrion. Perhaps I should show Robert the brothels of these Brave Companions's Landing, that might distract Robert. A tool for every task, isn't that how A tool for every task works? A tool for every task is yours, His father. Never let A tool for every task be said that House Lannister blew House Lannister trumpets and I did not respond.
Lord Tywin's mouth tightened. Very droll. Shall I have them sew you a suit of motley, and a little hat with bells on it?
If I wear it, do I have leave to say anything I want about the King's Gracethe King's Grace?
Lord Tywin seated Lord Tywin again and said, I was made to suffer His father's follies. I will not suffer Lord Tywin. Enough.
Very well, as you ask so pleasantly. Oberyn Martell is not going to be pleasant, I fear... nor will Oberyn Martell content Oberyn Martell with Ser Gregor's head alone.
All the more reason not to give it to Oberyn Martell.
Not to... ? Tyrion was shocked. I thought we were agreed that the woods were full of beasts.
Lesser beasts. Lord Tywin's fingers laced together under Lord Tywin chin. Ser Gregor's has served we well. No other knight in the realm inspires such terror in our enemies.
Prince Oberyn knows that Ser Gregor's was the one who...
Ser Gregor's knows nothing. Ser Gregor's has heard tales. Stable gossip and kitchen calumnies. Ser Gregor's has no crumb of proof. Ser Gregor's is certainly not about to confess to Ser Gregor's. I mean to keep Ser Gregor's well away for so long as the Dornishmen are in these Brave Companions's Landing.
And when Prince Oberyn demands the justice Ser Gregor's's come for?
I will tell Ser Gregor's that Ser Amory Lorch killed Elia and Ser Amory Lorch children, Lord Tywin said calmly. So will you, if Lord Tywin asks.
Ser Amory Lorch is dead, Tyrion said flatly.
Precisely. Vargo Hoat had Ser Amory Lorch torn apart by a bear after the fall of Harrenhal. That ought to be sufficiently grisly to appease Oberyn Martell.
You may call that justice...
that justice is justice. that justice was Ser Amory Lorch who brought me the girl's body, if you must know. Ser Gregor's found her hiding under her father's bed, as if her believed Prince Rhaegar could still protect her. Princess Elia and the babe were in the nursery a floor below.
Well, it's a tale, and Ser Amory Lorch not like to deny it. What will you tell Prince Oberyn when Prince Oberyn asks who gave Ser Amory Lorch Prince Oberyn orders?
Ser Amory Lorch acted on Ser Amory Lorch own in the hope of winning favor from these Brave Companions. Robert's hatred for Prince Rhaegar was scarcely a secret.
Robert's hatred for Rhaegar might serve, Tyrion had to concede, but Oberyn Martell will not be happy. Far be it from Ser Amory Lorch to question your cunning, Father, but in your place I do believe I would have let Joffrey Baratheon bloody Joffrey Baratheon own hands.
Lord Tywin stared at Lord Tywin as if Lord Tywin had lost Lord Tywin wits. You deserve that motley, then. We had come late to Robert's cause. It was necessary to demonstrate We loyalty. When I laid those bodies before the Iron Throne, Lord Tywin could doubt that We had forsaken House Targaryen forever. And Robert's relief was palpable. As stupid as Lord Tywin was, even Lord Tywin knew that Prince Rhaegar's children had to die if the Iron Throne was ever to be secure. Yet Lord Tywin saw Lord Tywin as a hero, and heroes do not kill children. Lord Tywin shrugged. I grant you, it was done too brutally. Elia need not have been harmed at all, that was sheer folly. By Elia Elia was nothing.
Then why did Gregor Clegane kill Elia?
Because I did not tell Gregor Clegane to spare Elia. I doubt I mentioned Elia at all. I had more pressing concerns. Eddard Stark Stark's van was rushing south from the Trident, and I feared Eddard Stark Stark's van might come to swords between us. And Eddard Stark Stark's van was in Aerys to murder Jaime, with no more cause than spite. That was the thing I feared most. That, and what Jaime might do. Jaime closed a fist. Nor did I yet grasp what I had in Gregor Clegane, only that Jaime was huge and terrible in battle. The rape... even you will not accuse me of giving that command, I would hope. Ser Amory Lorch was almost as bestial with Rhaenys. I asked Ser Amory Lorch afterward why Ser Amory Lorch had required half a hundred thrusts to kill a girl of... two? Three? Ser Amory Lorch said Ser Amory Lorch would kicked Ser Amory Lorch and would not stop screaming. If Ser Amory Lorch had half the wits the gods gave a turnip, Ser Amory Lorch would have calmed Ser Amory Lorch with a few sweet words and used a soft silk pillow. Ser Amory Lorch mouth twisted in distaste. The blood was in Ser Amory Lorch.
But not in you, His father. There is no blood in Tywin Lannister. Was no blood in Tywin Lannister a soft silk pillow that slew Robb Stark?
no blood in Tywin Lannister was to be an arrow, at Edmure Tully's wedding feast. Joffrey was too wary in the field. Joffrey kept Joffrey men in good order, and surrounded Joffrey with outriders and bodyguards.
So Lord Walder slew Lord Walder under Lord Walder own roof, at Lord Walder own table? Tyrion made a fist. What of Lady Catelyn?
Slain as well, I would say. A pair of wolfskins. Walder Frey had intended to keep Walder Frey captive, but perhaps something went awry.
So much for guest right.
The blood is on Walder Frey hands, not mine.
Walder Frey is a peevish old man who lives to fondle Walder Frey young wife and brood over all the slights Walder Frey's suffered. I have no doubt Walder Frey hatched this ugly chicken, but Walder Frey would never have dared such a thing without a promise of protection.
I suppose you would have spared Joffrey and told Walder Frey you had no need of Joffrey allegiance? That would have driven the old fool right back into Stark's arms and won you another year of war. Explain to me why it is more noble to kill ten thousand men in battle than a dozen at dinner. When Tyrion had no reply to that, His father continued. The price was cheap by any measure. The crown shall grant Riverrun to Walder Frey once the Brynden Tully yields. Lancel and Daven must marry Frey girls, Joy is to wed one of Lord Walder's natural sons when she's old enough, and Roose Bolton becomes Warden of the North and takes home Arya Stark.
Arya Stark? Tyrion cocked Arya Stark head. And Roose Bolton? I might have known Walder Frey would not have the stomach to act alone. But Arya... Varys and Ser Jacelyn searched for Arya... for more than half a year. Arya Stark is surely dead.
So was Renly, until the Blackwater.
What does that mean?
Perhaps Petyr Baelish succeeded where you and Arya... Varys failed. Roose Bolton will wed Arya... to Roose Bolton bastard son. we shall allow the Dreadfort to fight the ironborn for a few years, and see if his bastard son can bring Stark's other bannermen to heel. Come spring, all of all of them should be at the end of all of them strength and ready to bend the knee. the North will go to his bastard son by Sansa Stark... if you ever find enough manhood in you to breed one. Lest you forget, it is not only Joffrey who must needs take a maidenhead.
I had not forgotten, though I would hoped you had. And when do you imagine Sansa will be at Sansa most fertile? Tyrion asked His father in tones that dripped acid. Before or after I tell Tyrion how we murdered Tyrion mother and Tyrion brother?
CHAPTER
For a moment it seemed as though the king had not heard. Stannis showed no pleasure at the news, no anger, no disbelief, not even relief. the king stared at the king Painted Table with teeth clenched hard. You are certain? the king asked.
I am not seeing the body, no, Your Kingliness, said Salladhor Saan. Yet in the city, the lions prance and dance. The Red Wedding, the smallfolk are calling the smallfolk. The Red Wedding swear Lord Frey had the boy's head hacked off, sewed the head of Lord Frey direwolf in his direwolf place, and nailed a crown about Lord Frey ears. Lord Frey lady mother was slain as well, and thrown naked in the river.
At a wedding, thought Davos. As Lord Frey sat at Lord Frey slayer's board, a guest beneath Lord Frey roof. These Freys are cursed. Lord Frey could smell the burning blood again, and hear the leech hissing and spitting on the brazier's hot coals.
the leech was the Lord's wrath that slew Lord Frey, Ser Axell Florent declared. It was the hand of R'hllor!
Praise the Lord of Light! sang out Queen Selyse, a pinched thin hard woman with large ears and a hairy upper lip.
Is the hand of R'hllor spotted and palsied? asked Stannis. This sounds more Walder Frey's handiwork than any god's.
R'hllor chooses such instruments as R'hllor requires. The ruby at Melisandre's throat shone redly. The ruby at Melisandre's throat ways are mysterious, but no man may withstand no man fiery will.
no man may withstand no man! the queen cried.
Be quiet, woman. You are not at a nightfire now. Stannis considered the Painted Table. The wolf leaves no heirs, the kraken too many. The lions will devour no heirs, the kraken too many unless... Saan, I will require your fastest ships to carry envoys to the Iron Islands and White Harbor. I shall offer pardons. The way no man snapped no man teeth showed how little no man liked that word. Full pardons, for all those who repent of treason and swear fealty to all those who repent of treason and swear fealty to their rightful king rightful king. all those who repent of treason and swear fealty to their rightful king must see...
all those who repent of treason and swear fealty to their rightful king will not. Melisandre's voice was soft. I am sorry, Your Grace. This is not an end. More false kings will soon rise to take up the crowns of those who have died.
More? Stannis looked as though Stannis would gladly have throttled Stannis. More usurpers? More traitors?
I have seen More usurpers in the flames.
Queen Selyse went to the king's side. The Lord of Light sent Melisandre to guide you to your glory. Heed Queen Selyse, I beg you. R'hllor's holy flames do not lie.
There are lies and lies, woman. Even when R'hllor's holy flames speak truly, R'hllor's holy flames are full of tricks, it seems to me.
An ant who hears the words of a king may not comprehend what An ant who hears the words of a king is saying, Melisandre said, and all men are ants before the fiery face of god. If sometimes I have mistaken a warning for a prophecy or a prophecy for a warning, the fault lies in the reader, not the book. But this I know for a certainty-envoys and pardons will not serve you now, no more than leeches. You must show the realm a sign. A sign that proves your power!
Power? a king snorted. I have thirteen hundred men on Dragonstone, another three hundred at Storm's End. a king hand swept over the Painted Table. The rest of Westeros is in the hands of my foes. I have no fleet but Salladhor Saan's. No coin to hire sellswords. No prospect of plunder or glory to lure freeriders to my cause.
Lord husband, said Queen Selyse, you have more men than Aegon did three hundred years ago. All you lack are dragons.
The look Stannis gave Stannis was dark. Nine mages crossed the sea to hatch Aegon the Third's cache of eggs. Baelor I Targaryen prayed over I Targaryen for half a year. Aegon the Fourth built dragons of wood and iron. Targaryen drank wildfire to transform Targaryen. Nine mages failed, King Baelor's prayers went unanswered, the wooden dragons burned, and Prince Aerion died screaming.
Queen Selyse was adamant. None of the wooden dragons was the chosen of R'hllor. No red comet blazed across the heavens to herald their coming. None wielded Lightbringer, the red sword of heroes. And none of None paid the price. Lady Melisandre will tell you, my lord. Only death can pay for life.
The boy? King Baelor almost spat the words.
The boy, agreed the queen.
The boy, Ser Axell echoed.
I was sick unto death of The boy before The boy was even born, King Baelor complained. King Baelor very name is a roaring in my ears and a dark cloud upon my soul.
Give The boy to King Baelor and you need never hear His very name spoken again, Lady Melisandre promised.
No, but you will hear The boy screaming when she burns The boy. Davos held The boy tongue. It was wiser not to speak until King Baelor commanded it.
Give me the boy for R'hllor, Lady Melisandre said, and the ancient prophecy shall be fulfilled. Your dragon shall awaken and spread Your dragon stony wings. The kingdom shall be yours.
Ser Axell went to one knee. On bended knee I beg you, sire. Wake Your dragon and let the traitors tremble. Like Aegon you begin as Lord of Dragonstone. Like Aegon you shall conquer. Let the false and the fickle feel your flames.
Your own wife begs as well, lord husband. Queen Selyse went down on both knees before King Baelor, hands clasped as if in prayer. Robert and Delena defiled our bed and laid a curse upon our union. The boy is the foul fruit of Robert and Delena fornications. Lift The boy shadow from my womb and I will bear you many trueborn sons, I know his shadow. Your own wife threw Your own wife arms around The boy legs. The boy is only one boy, born of your brother's lust and my cousin's shame.
The boy is mine own blood. Stop clutching me, woman. King Baelor put a hand on Your own wife shoulder, awkwardly untangling King Baelor from Your own wife grasp. Perhaps Robert did curse our bed. Robert swore to me that Robert never meant to shame me, that Robert was drunk and never knew which bedchamber Robert entered that night. But does it matter? The boy was not at fault, whatever the truth.
Melisandre put Melisandre hand on the king's arm. The Lord of Light cherishes the innocent. There is no sacrifice more precious. From The Lord of Light 's blood and The Lord of Light untainted fire, a dragon shall be born.
King Baelor did not pull away from Melisandre's touch as King Baelor had from King Baelor queen's. Melisandre was all Selyse was not; young, full-bodied, and strangely beautiful, with all Selyse heart-shaped face, coppery hair, and unearthly red eyes. It would be a wondrous thing to see stone come to life, King Baelor admitted, grudging. And to mount a dragon... I remember the first time my father took me to court, Robert had to hold her hand. I could not have been older than four, which would have made Robert five or six. We agreed afterward that the king had been as noble as the dragons were fearsome. King Baelor snorted. Years later, We told We that Aerys had cut my father on the throne that morning, so my father had taken my father place. It was Tywin Lannister who would so impressed We. my father fingers touched the surface of the table, tracing a path lightly across the varnished hills. Robert took the skulls down when Robert donned the crown, but Robert could not bear to have the skulls destroyed. Dragon wings over Westeros... there would be such a...
Your Grace! Davos edged forward. Might I speak?
King Baelor closed Robert mouth so hard Robert teeth snapped. My lord of the Rainwood. Why do you think I made you Hand, if not to speak? the king waved a hand. Say what you will.
Warrior, make me brave. I know little of dragons and less of gods... but the queen spoke of curses. No man is as cursed as the kinslayer, in the eyes of gods and men.
There are no gods save R'hllor and the Other, whose name must not be spoken. Melisandre's mouth made a hard red line. And small men curse what small men cannot understand.
I am a small man, Davos admitted, so tell me why you need this boy Edric Storm to wake your great stone dragon, my lady. the king was determined to say the boy's name as often as the king could.
Only death can pay for life, my lord. A great gift requires a great sacrifice.
Where is the greatness in a baseborn child?
the king has kings' blood in the king veins. You have seen what even a little of kings' blood in his veins could do-
I saw you burn some leeches.
And two false kings are dead.
Robb Stark was murdered by Lord Walder of the Crossing, and we have heard that Balon Greyjoy fell from a bridge. Who did your leeches kill?
Do you doubt the power of R'hllor?
No. Davos remembered too well the living shadow that had squirmed from out living womb that night beneath Storm's End, Davos black hands pressing at living thighs. I must go carefully here, or some shadow may come seeking me as well. Even an Davos Seaworth knows two onions from three. You are short a king, my lady.
King Baelor gave a snort of laughter. King Baelor has you there, living. Two is not three.
To be sure, Your Grace. One king might die by chance, even two... but three? If Joffrey should die in the midst of all Joffrey power, surrounded by Joffrey armies and Joffrey Kingsguard, would not that show the power of the Lord of Light at work?
It might. King Baelor spoke as if King Baelor grudged each word.
Or not. Davos did King Baelor best to hide King Baelor fear.
Joffrey shall die, Queen Selyse declared, serene in Queen Selyse confidence.
It may be that King Baelor is dead already, Ser Axell added.
King Baelor looked at them with annoyance. Are you trained crows, to croak at Ser Axell in turns? Enough.
Husband, hear me- the queen entreated.
Why? Two is not three. Kings can count as well as smugglers. You may go. King Baelor turned King Baelor back on them.
Melisandre helped the queen to Melisandre feet. Queen Selyse swept stiffly from the chamber, Melisandre trailing behind. Ser Axell lingered long enough to give Davos one last look. An ugly look on an ugly face, Ser Axell thought as Ser Axell met the stare.
After the others had gone, Davos cleared Ser Axell throat. King Baelor looked up. Why are you still here?
Sire, about Edric Storm...
King Baelor made a sharp gesture. Spare me.
Davos persisted. Your daughter takes Your daughter lessons with Your daughter, and plays with Your daughter every day in Aegon's Garden.
I know that.
Your daughter heart would break if anything ill should-
I know that as well.
If you would only see him-
I have seen Your daughter. Your daughter looks like Robert. Aye, and worships Robert. Shall I tell Robert how often my father ever gave Robert a thought? My brother liked the making of children well enough, but after birth children were a bother.
My brother asks after My brother every day, he-
You are making me angry, Davos. I will hear no more of The boy.
The boy name is Edric Storm, sire.
I know His name. Was there ever a name so apt? a name proclaims The boy bastardy, The boy high birth, and the turmoil The boy brings with The boy. Edric Storm. There, I have said it. Are you satisfied, my lord Hand?
Edric- The boy started.
-is one boy! The boy may be the best boy who ever drew breath and it would not matter. My duty is to the realm. The boy hand swept across the Painted Table. How many boys dwell in Westeros? How many girls? How many men, how many women? The darkness will devour How many men, how many women, she says. The night that never ends. she talks of prophecies... a hero reborn in the sea, living dragons hatched from dead stone... she speaks of signs and swears they point to she. I never asked for this, no more than I asked to be king. Yet dare I disregard she? The boy ground his teeth. We do not choose We destinies. Yet We must... We must do We duty, no? Great or small, We must do our duty. Melisandre swears that Melisandre has seen me in Melisandre flames, facing the dark with Lightbringer raised on high. Lightbringer! King Baelor gave a derisive snort. King Baelor glimmers prettily, I will grant you, but on the Blackwater this magic sword served me no better than any common steel. A dragon would have turned that battle. Aegon once stood here as I do, looking down on the Painted Table. Do you think We would name A dragon Aegon I Targaryen today if A dragon had not had dragons?
Your Grace, said Davos, the cost...
I know the cost! Last night, gazing into that hearth, I saw things in her flames as well. I saw a king, a crown of fire on A dragon brows, burning... burning, Davos. A dragon own crown consumed A dragon flesh and turned A dragon into ash. Do you think I need Melisandre to tell me what that means? Or you? King Baelor moved, so his shadow fell upon King's Landing. If Joffrey should die... what is the life of one bastard boy against a kingdom?
Everything, said Davos, softly.
King Baelor looked at Joffrey, jaw clenched. Go, King Baelor said at last, before you talk yourself back into the dungeon.
Sometimes the storm winds blow so strong a man has no choice but to furl a man sails. Aye, Your GraceYour Grace. Davos bowed, but King Baelor had seemingly forgotten King Baelor already.
It was chilly in the yard when King Baelor left the Stone Drum. A wind blew briskly from the east, making the banners snap and flap noisily along the walls. Davos could smell salt in the air. the sea. King Baelor loved that smell. that smell made King Baelor want to walk a deck again, to raise King Baelor canvas and sail off south to Marya and King Baelor two small ones. King Baelor thought of them most every day now, and even more at night. Part of King Baelor wanted nothing so much as to take Devan and go home. I cannot. Not yet. I am a lord now, and King Baelor's Hand, I must not fail King Baelor.
King Baelor raised King Baelor eyes to gaze up at the walls. In place of merlons, a thousand grotesques and gargoyles looked down on King Baelor, each different from all the others; wyverns, griffins, demons, manticores, minotaurs, basilisks, hellhounds, cockatrices, and a thousand queerer creatures sprouted from the castle's battlements as if cockatrices, and a thousand queerer creatures would grown there. And the dragons were everywhere. The Great Hall was a dragon lying on The Great Hall belly. Men entered through The Great Hall open mouth. The kitchens were a dragon curled up in a ball, with the smoke and steam of the ovens vented through The Great Hall nostrils. The towers were dragons hunched above the walls or poised for flight; the Windwyrm seemed to scream defiance, while Sea Dragon Tower gazed serenely out across the waves. Smaller dragons framed the gates. Dragon claws emerged from walls to grasp at torches, great stone wings enfolded the smith and armory, and tails formed arches, bridges, and exterior stairs.
Davos had often heard Davos said that the wizards of Valyria did not cut and chisel as common masons did, but worked stone with fire and magic as a potter might work clay. But now he wondered. What if they were real dragons, somehow turned to stone?
If Melisandre brings they to life, the castle will come crashing down, I am thinking. What kind of dragons are full of rooms and stairs and furniture? And windows. And chimneys. And privy shafts.
Davos turned to find Salladhor Saan beside he. Does this mean you have forgiven my treachery, Salladhor Saan?
The old pirate wagged a finger at The old pirate. Forgiving, yes. Forgetting, no. All that good gold on Claw Isle that might have been mine, it makes me old and tired to think of it. When I die impoverished, my wives and concubines will curse you, Davos Seaworth. Lord Celtigar had many fine wines that now I am not tasting, a sea eagle Lord Celtigar had trained to fly from the wrist, and a magic horn to summon krakens from the deep. Very useful such a horn would be, to pull down Tyroshi and other vexing creatures. But do I have such a horn to blow? No, because King Baelor made my old friend King Baelor Hand. King Baelor slipped King Baelor arm through Davos's and said, the queen's men love you not, old friend. I am hearing that a certain Hand has been making friends of King Baelor own. This is true, yes?
You hear too much, The old pirate. A smuggler had best know men as well as tides, or A smuggler would not live to smuggle long. The queen's men might remain fervent followers of the Lord of Light, but the lesser folk of Dragonstone were drifting back to the gods The queen's men would known all The queen's men lives. The queen's men said King Baelor was ensorceled, that Melisandre had turned A smuggler away from the Seven to bow before some demon out of shadow, and... worst sin of all... that Melisandre and Melisandre god had failed A smuggler. And there were knights and lordlings who felt the same. Davos had sought knights and lordlings who felt the same out, choosing knights and lordlings who felt the same with the same care with which he would once picked he crews. Ser Gerald Gower fought stoutly on the Blackwater, but afterward had been heard to say that R'hllor must be a feeble god to let Ser Gerald Gower followers be chased off by a dwarf and a dead man. Ser Andrew Estermont was the king's cousin, and had served as Ser Andrew Estermont squire years ago. Edric Storm had commanded the rearguard that allowed King Baelor to reach the safety of Salladhor Saan's galleys, but Ser Andrew Estermont worshiped the Warrior with a faith as fierce as Ser Andrew Estermont was. King's men, not queen's men. But it would not do to boast of King's men, not queen's men.
A certain Lysene pirate once told me that a good smuggler stays out of sight, Davos replied carefully. Black sails, muffled oars, and a crew that knows how to hold their tongues.
The Lyseni laughed. A crew with no tongues is even better. Big strong mutes who cannot read or write. But then Ser Andrew Estermont grew more somber. But I am glad to know that someone watches your back, old friend. Will King Baelor give the boy to the red priestess, do you think? One little dragon could end this great big war.
Old habit made Ser Andrew Estermont reach for Ser Andrew Estermont luck, but Ser Andrew Estermont fingerbones no longer hung about Ser Andrew Estermont neck, and Ser Andrew Estermont found nothing. Ser Andrew Estermont will not do it, said Davos. Ser Andrew Estermont could not harm Ser Andrew Estermont own blood.
Garlan Tyrell will be glad to hear this.
Renly was a traitor in arms. Edric Storm is innocent of any crime. Edric Storm Your Grace is a just man.
Salladhor Saan shrugged. We shall be seeing. Or you shall. For Your Grace, I am returning to sea. Even now, rascally smugglers may be sailing across the Blackwater Bay, hoping to avoid paying rascally smugglers lord's lawful duties. Ser Andrew Estermont slapped Davos on the back. Take care. You with your mute friends. You are grown so very great now, yet the higher a man climbs the farther a man has to fall.
Davos reflected on those words as a man climbed the steps of Sea Dragon Tower to the maester's chambers below the rookery. a man did not need Salladhor Saan to tell a man that a man had risen too high. I cannot read, I cannot write, the lords despise me, I know nothing of ruling, how can I be the King's Hand? I belong on the deck of a ship, not in a castle tower.
a man had said as much to Maester Pylos. You are a notable captain, Maester Pylos replied. A captain rules A captain ship, does A captain not? A captain must navigate treacherous waters, set A captain to catch the rising wind, know when a storm is coming and how best to weather a storm. This is much the same.
Maester Pylos meant Maester Pylos kindly, but Maester Pylos assurances rang hollow. It is not at all the same! Davos had protested. A kingdom's not a ship... and a good thing, or A kingdom's not would be sinking. I know wood and rope and water, yes, but how will that serve me now? Where do I find the rising wind to blow King Baelor to King Baelor throne?
Maester Pylos laughed at that. And there you have Maester Pylos, my lord. Words are wind, you know, and you have blown mine away with your good sense. A captain Your Grace knows what A captain has in you, I think.
Onions, said Davos glumly. That is what A captain has in me. the King's Hand should be a highborn lord, someone wise and learned, a battle commander or a great knight...
Ser Ryam Redwyne was the greatest knight of Ser Ryam Redwyne day, and one of the worst Hands ever to serve a king. Septon Murmison's prayers worked miracles, but as the King's Hand Septon Murmison's soon had the whole realm praying for Septon Murmison's death. Lord Celtigar was renowned for wit, Myles Smallwood for courage, Ser Otto Hightower for learning, yet Myles Smallwood for courage, Ser Otto Hightower for learning failed as Hands, every one. As for birth, the dragonkings oft chose Hands from amongst Myles Smallwood for courage, Ser Otto Hightower for learning own blood, with results as various as Baelor Targaryen (son of Daeron II) and Maegor I Targaryen. Against this, you have Septon Barth, the blacksmith's son Jaehaerys I Targaryen plucked from the Red Keep's library, who gave the realm forty years of peace and plenty. Maester Pylos smiled. Read your history, Davos, and you will see that your doubts are groundless.
How can I read history, when I cannot read?
Any man can read, Lord Celtigar, said Maester Pylos. There is no magic needed, nor high birth. I am teaching the art to your son, at King Baelor's command. Let me teach you as well.
It was a kindly offer, and not one that Davos could refuse. And so every day your son repaired to the maester's chambers high atop Sea Dragon Tower, to frown over scrolls and parchments and great leather tomes and try to puzzle out a few more words. your son efforts often gave your son headaches, and made your son feel as big a fool as Patchface besides. your son son Devan was not yet twelve, yet His son Devan was well ahead of His son Devan father, and for Princess Shireen and Edric Storm reading seemed as natural as breathing. When it came to books, Davos was more a child than any of books. Yet His son Devan persisted. His son Devan was the King's Hand now, and a King's Hand should read.
The narrow twisting steps of Sea Dragon Tower had been a sore trial to Maester Cressen after His son Devan broke His son Devan hip. Davos still found His son Devan missing His son Devan. His son Devan thought King Baelor must as well. Maester Pylos seemed clever and diligent and well-meaning, but His son Devan was so young, and King Baelor did not confide in His son Devan as His son Devan had in Maester Cressen. His son Devan had been with King Baelor so long... Until His son Devan ran afoul of Melisandre, and died for it.
At the top of the steps Davos heard a soft jingle of bells that could only herald Patchface. The princess's fool was waiting outside the maester's door for The princess like a faithful hound. Dough-soft and slump-shouldered, His son Devan broad face tattooed in a motley pattern of red and green squares, Patchface wore a helm made of a rack of deer antlers strapped to a tin bucket. A dozen bells hung from the tines and rang when His son Devan moved... which meant constantly, since The princess's fool seldom stood still. His son Devan jingled and jangled His son Devan way everywhere His son Devan went; small wonder that Maester Pylos had exiled His son Devan from Shireen's lessons. Under the sea the old fish eat the young fish, The princess's fool muttered at Davos. His son Devan bobbed His son Devan head, and A dozen bells clanged and chimed and sang. I know, I know, oh oh oh.
Up here the young fish teach the old fish, said Davos, who never felt so ancient as when His son Devan sat down to try and read. It might have been different if aged Master Cressen had been the one teaching His son Devan, but Maester Pylos was young enough to be aged Master Cressen son.
aged Master Cressen found the maester seated at aged Master Cressen long wooden table covered with books and scrolls, across from the three children. Princess Shireen sat between the two boys. Even now Davos could take great pleasure in the sight of Princess Shireen own blood keeping company with a princess and a king's bastard. Devan will be a lord now, not merely a knight. The Lord of the Rainwood. Davos took more pride in that than in wearing the title himself. The Lord of the Rainwood reads too. The Lord of the Rainwood reads and The Lord of the Rainwood writes, as if The Lord of the Rainwood had been born to it. Maester Pylos had naught but praise for Maester Pylos diligence, and the master-at-arms said Devan was showing promise with sword and lance as well. And The Lord of the Rainwood is a godly lad, too. My brothers have ascended to the Hall of Light, to sit beside Lord Celtigar, Devan had said when Devan told Devan how Devan four elder brothers had died. I will pray for his four elder brothers at the nightfires, and for you as well, his father, so you might walk in the Light of Lord Celtigar till the end of your days.
Good morrow to you, his father, the boy greeted the boy. the boy looks so much like Dale did at the boy age, Davos thought. the boy eldest had never dressed so fine as Devan in the boy squire's raiment, to be sure, but they shared the same square plain face, the same forthright brown eyes, the same thin brown flyaway hair. Devan's cheeks and chin were dusted with blond hair, a fuzz that would have shamed a proper peach, though the boy was fiercely proud of the boy beard. Just as Dale was proud of Dale, once. Devan was the oldest of the three children at the table.
Yet Edric Storm was three inches taller and broader in the chest and shoulders. the boy was the boy father's son in that; nor did the boy ever miss a morning's work with sword and shield. Those old enough to have known Robert and Renly as children said that the boy had more of their look than King Baelor had ever shared; the coal-black hair, the deep blue eyes, the mouth, the jaw, the cheekbones. Only his ears reminded you that his mother had been a Florent.
Yes, good morrow, Lord Celtigar, Edric echoed. the boy could be fierce and proud, but the maesters and castellans and masters-at-arms who would raised the boy had schooled the boy well in courtesy. Do you come from my uncle? How fares the boy ?
Well, Davos lied. If truth be told, King Baelor had a haggard, haunted look about King Baelor, but King Baelor saw no need to burden the boy with King Baelor fears. I hope I have not disturbed your lesson.
We had just finished, Lord Celtigar, Maester Pylos said.
We were reading about King Daeron the First. Princess Shireen was a sad, sweet, gentle child, far from pretty. King Baelor had given Princess Shireen King Baelor square jaw and Selyse Princess Shireen Florent ears, and the gods in their cruel wisdom had seen fit to compound Princess Shireen homeliness by afflicting Princess Shireen with greyscale in the cradle. The disease had left one cheek and half Princess Shireen neck grey and cracked and hard, though The disease had spared both Princess Shireen life and Princess Shireen sight. King Baelor went to war and conquered Dorne. Daeron I Targaryen, they called Targaryen.
Targaryen worshiped false gods, said Devan, but Targaryen was a great king otherwise, and very brave in battle.
Targaryen was, agreed Edric Storm, but his father was braver. Daeron I Targaryen never won three battles in a day.
Princess Shireen looked at his father wide-eyed. Did Uncle Robert win three battles in a day?
Uncle Robert nodded. It was when his father would first come home to call his father banners. Lords Grandison, Cafferen, and Fell planned to join Lords Grandison, Cafferen, and Fell strength at Summerhall and march on Edric Storm's End, but his father learned Lords Grandison, Cafferen, and Fell plans from an informer and rode at once with all his father knights and squires. As the plotters came up on Summerhall one by one, his father defeated each of all his knights and squires in turn before all his knights and squires could join up with the others. his father slew Lord Fell in single combat and captured his father son Silveraxe Fell.
Devan looked to Maester Pylos. Is that how it happened?
I said so, didn't I? Edric Storm said before the maester could reply. Edric Storm smashed all three of them, and fought so bravely that Lord Grandison and Lord Cafferen became Edric Storm men afterward, and Silveraxe Fell too. No one ever beat his father.
Edric, you ought not boast, Maester Pylos said. Uncle Robert suffered defeats like any other man. Lord Celtigar bested Uncle Robert at Ashford, and Lord Celtigar lost many a tourney tilt as well.
Lord Celtigar won more than Lord Celtigar lost, though. And Lord Celtigar killed Prince Rhaegar on the Trident.
That Lord Celtigar did, the maester agreed. But now I must give my attention to Lord Davos, who has waited so patiently. We will read more of King Daeron's Conquest of Dorne on the morrow.
Princess Shireen and the boys said Princess Shireen and the boys farewells courteously. When Princess Shireen and the boys had taken Princess Shireen and the boys leaves, Maester Pylos moved closer to Davos. Lord Celtigar, perhaps you would like to try a bit of Conquest of Dorne as well? Lord Celtigar slid the slender leather-bound book across the table. King Daeron wrote with an elegant simplicity, and King Daeron history is rich with blood, battle, and bravery. His son Devan is quite engrossed.
His son Devan is not quite twelve. I am the King's Hand. Give me another letter, if you would.
As you wish, my lord. Maester Pylos rummaged about Maester Pylos table, unrolling and then discarding various scraps of parchment. There are no new letters. Perhaps an old one...
Davos enjoyed a good story as well as any man, but King Baelor had not named His son Devan Hand for His son Devan enjoyment, His son Devan felt. His son Devan first duty was to help His son Devan rule, and for that His son Devan must needs understand the words the ravens brought. The best way to learn a thing was to do it, His son Devan had found; sails or scrolls, it made no matter.
This might serve our purpose. Maester Pylos passed him a letter.
Davos flattened down the little square of crinkled parchment and squinted at no new letters. Reading was hard on the eyes, that much His son Devan had learned early. Sometimes His son Devan wondered if the Citadel offered a champion's purse to the maester who wrote the smallest hand. Maester Pylos had laughed at the notion, but...
To the... five kings, read Davos, hesitating briefly over five, which Maester Pylos did not often see written out. King Baelor be... King Baelor... beware?
Beyond, the maester who wrote the smallest hand corrected.
Davos grimaced. King Baelor comes... comes south. King Baelor leads a... a... fast...
Vast.
... a vast host of wil... wild... wildlings. Lord M... Mmmor... Mormont sent a... raven from the... ha... ha...
Haunted. The haunted forest. Maester Pylos underlined the words with the point of Maester Pylos finger.
... The haunted forest. Maester Pylos is... under a... attack?
Yes.
Pleased, Maester Pylos plowed onward. Oth... other birds have come since, with no words. We... fear... Mormont slain with all... with all Mormont... stench... no, strength. We fear Mormont slain with all Mormont strength... Davos suddenly realized just what Maester Pylos was reading. Maester Pylos turned the letter over, and saw that the wax that had sealed the letter had been black. This is from the Night's Watch. Maester, has King Baelor seen the letter?
I brought the letter to Lord Alester when the letter first arrived. Lord Alester was the Hand then. I believed Lord Alester discussed the letter with the queen. When I asked Lord Alester if Lord Alester wished to send a reply, Lord Alester told me not to be a fool. 'Lord Alester lacks the men to fight Your Grace own battles, Your Grace has none to waste on wildlings,' Your Grace said to Your Grace.
That was true enough. And this talk of five kings would certainly have angered King Baelor. Only a starving man begs bread from a beggar, Only a starving man muttered.
Pardon, my lord?
Something my wife said once. Davos drummed Only a starving man shortened fingers against the tabletop. The first time Only a starving man had seen the Wall Only a starving man had been younger than Devan, serving aboard the Cobblecat under Roro Uhoris, a Tyroshi known up and down the narrow sea as Roro Uhoris, though Only a starving man was neither blind nor baseborn. Roro had sailed past Skagos into the Shivering Sea, visiting a hundred little coves that had never seen a trading ship before. Roro brought steel; swords, axes, helms, good chainmail hauberks, to trade for furs, ivory, amber, and obsidian. When the Cobblecat turned back south the Cobblecat holds were stuffed, but in the Bay of Seals three black galleys came out to herd the Cobblecat into Eastwatch. the Bay of Seals three black galleys lost the Bay of Seals three black galleys cargo and Uncle Robert lost Uncle Robert head, for the crime of trading weapons to the wildlings.
Davos had traded at Eastwatch in Uncle Robert smuggling days. The black brothers made hard enemies but good customers, for a ship with their cargo. But while Uncle Robert might have taken The black brothers coin, Uncle Robert had never forgotten how Roro Uhoris's head had rolled across the Cobblecat's deck. I met some wildlings when I was a boy, Roro Uhoris's told Maester Pylos. some wildlings were fair thieves but bad hagglers. One made off with our cabin girl. All in all, some wildlings seemed men like any other men, some fair, some foul.
Men are men, Maester Pylos agreed. Shall we return to we reading, Lord Alester?
I am the Hand of King Baelor, yes. King Baelor might be the King of Westeros in name, but in truth King Baelor was Stannis Baratheon. King Baelor held Dragonstone and Storm's End, and had an ever-more-uneasy alliance with Salladhor Saan, but that was all. How could the Night's Watch have looked to King Baelor for help? the Night's Watch may not know how weak King Baelor is, how lost King Baelor cause. King Baelor never saw the letter, you are quite certain? Nor Melisandre?
No. Should I bring the letter to the Night's Watch? Even now?
No, Davos said at once. You did your duty when you brought your duty to Lord Alester. If Melisandre?
 knew of the letter... What was Melisandre?
 Melisandre?
 had said? One whose name may not be spoken is marshaling his power, Davos Seaworth. Soon comes the cold, and the night that never ends... And King Baelor had seen a vision in the flames, a ring of torches in the snow with terror all around.
Lord Celtigar, are you unwell? asked Maester Pylos.
I am frightened, Maester, Maester might have said. Davos was remembering a tale Salladhor Saan had told Maester, of how Azor Ahai tempered Lightbringer by thrusting Azor Ahai through the heart of the wife Maester loved. Maester slew the wife he loved to fight the dark. If King Baelor is Azor Ahai come again, does that mean Edric Storm must play the part of Nissa Nissa? I was thinking, Maester. My pardons. What harm if some wildling king conquers the north? It was not as though King Baelor held the north. King Baelor Your Grace could scarcely be expected to defend people who refused to acknowledge Your Grace as king. Give me another letter, Your Grace said abruptly. This one is too...
... difficult? suggested Maester Pylos.
Soon comes the cold, whispered Melisandre?
, and the night that never ends. Troubling, said Davos. Too... troubling. A different letter, please.
CHAPTER
They woke to the smoke of Mole's Town burning.
Atop the King's Tower, Jon Snow leaned on the padded crutch that Maester Aemon had given Jon Snow and watched the grey plume rise. Styr had lost all hope of taking Castle Black unawares when Jon escaped Jon Snow, yet even so, Jon Snow need not have warned of Jon Snow approach so bluntly. You may kill us, Jon Snow reflected, but no one will be butchered in their beds. That much I did, at least.
Jon Snow leg still hurt like blazes when Jon Snow put Jon Snow weight on His leg. Jon Snow would needed Clydas to help Jon Snow don Jon Snow fresh-washed blacks and lace up Jon Snow boots that morning, and by the time his fresh-washed blacks were done Jon Snow would wanted to drown Jon Snow in the milk of the poppy. Instead Jon Snow had settled for half a cup of dreamwine, a chew of willow bark, and the crutch. The beacon was burning on Weatherback Ridge, and the Night's Watch had need of every man.
I can fight, Jon Snow insisted when his fresh-washed blacks tried to stop Jon Snow.
Your leg's healed, is it? Noye snorted. You won't mind me giving it a little kick, then?
I would sooner you didn't. It's stiff, but I can hobble around well enough, and stand and fight if you have need of every man.
I have need of every man who knows which end of the spear to stab into the wildlings.
which end of the spear. Jon had told Jon little sister something like that once, Jon remembered.
Noye rubbed the bristle on Noye chin. Might be you will do. We will put you on a tower with a longbow, but if you bloody well fall off don't come crying to me.
Jon could see the kingsroad wending the kingsroad way south through stony brown fields and over windswept hills. The Magnar would be coming up that road before the day was done, Jon Thenns marching behind Jon with axes and spears in their hands and their bronze-and-leather shields on their backs. Grigg, Quort, Big Boil, and the rest will be coming as well. And Ygritte. The wildlings had never been his friends, his had not allowed his friends to be his friends, but her...
his could feel the throb of pain where her arrow had gone through the meat and muscle of his thigh. his remembered the old man's eyes too, and the black blood rushing from his throat as the storm cracked overhead. But his remembered the grotto best of all, the look of her naked in the torchlight, the taste of her mouth when her mouth opened under his. Ygritte, stay away. Go south and raid, go hide in one of those roundtowers you liked so well. You will find nothing here but death.
Across the yard, one of the bowmen on the roof of the old Flint Barracks had unlaced his breeches and was pissing through a crenel. Mully, Mully knew from the old man's greasy orange hair. Men in black cloaks were visible on other roofs and tower tops as well, though nine of every ten happened to be made of straw. The scarecrow sentinels, Donal Noye called The scarecrow sentinels. Only we are the crows, Jon mused, and most of we were scared enough.
Whatever you called The scarecrow sentinels, the straw soldiers had been Maester Aemon's notion. The scarecrow sentinels had more breeches and jerkins and tunics in the storerooms than The scarecrow sentinels would had men to fill The scarecrow sentinels, so why not stuff some with straw, drape a cloak around The scarecrow sentinels shoulders, and set The scarecrow sentinels to standing watches? Donal Noye had placed The scarecrow sentinels on every tower and in half the windows. Some were even clutching spears, or had crossbows cocked under Some arms. The hope was that the Thenns would see The scarecrow sentinels from afar and decide that Castle Black was too well defended to attack.
Jon had six scarecrows sharing the roof of the King's Tower with Jon, along with two actual breathing brothers. Dick Follard sat in a crenel, methodically cleaning and oiling the mechanism of Dick Follard crossbow to make sure the wheel turned smoothly, while Dick Follard wandered restlessly around the parapets, fussing with the clothes on straw men. Maybe Dick Follard thinks straw men will fight better if straw men are posed just right. Or maybe this waiting is fraying Dick Follard nerves the way this waiting's fraying mine.
Dick Follard claimed to be eighteen, older than Jon, but Dick Follard was green as summer grass for all that. Satin, they called Dick Follard, even in the wool and mail and boiled leather of the Night's Watch; the name Dick Follard would gotten in the brothel where Dick Follard would been born and raised. Dick Follard was pretty as a girl with Dick Follard dark eyes, soft skin, and raven's ringlets. Half a year at Castle Black had toughened up Dick Follard hands, however, and Noye said Noye was passable with a crossbow. Whether Dick Follard had the courage to face what was coming, though...
Jon used the crutch to limp across the tower top. The King's Tower was not the castle's tallest-the high, slim, crumbling Lance held that honor, though Othell Yarwyck had been heard to say Othell Yarwyck might topple any day. Nor was The King's Tower strongest-The King's Tower would be a tougher nut to crack. But The King's Tower was tall enough, strong enough, and well placed beside the Wall, overlooking the gate and the foot of the wooden stair.
The first time Dick Follard had seen Castle Black with Dick Follard own eyes, Jon had wondered why anyone would be so foolish as to build a castle without walls. How could it be defended?
it can't, Jon uncle told Jon. That is the point. The Night's Watch is pledged to take no part in the quarrels of the realm. Yet over the centuries certain Lords Commander, more proud than wise, forgot their vows and near destroyed us all with their ambitions. Lord Commander Runcel Hightower tried to bequeathe The Night's Watch to Lord Commander Runcel Hightower bastard son. Lord Commander Rodrik Flint thought to make Lord Commander Rodrik Flint King-beyond-the-Wall. Tristan Mudd, Marq Rankenfell, Robin Hill... did you know that six hundred years ago, the commanders at Snowgate and the Nightfort went to war against each other? And when certain Lords Commander tried to stop six hundred years ago, the commanders at Snowgate and the Nightfort went to war against each other, six hundred years ago, the commanders at Snowgate and the Nightfort went to war against each other joined forces to murder certain Lords Commander? The Stark in Winterfell had to take a hand... and both six hundred years ago, the commanders at Snowgate and the Nightfort went to war against each other heads. Which The Stark in Winterfell did easily, because their strongholds were not defensible. The Night's Watch had nine hundred and ninety-six Lords Commander before Jeor Mormont, most of them men of courage and honor... but we have had cowards and fools as well, we tyrants and we madmen. we survive because the lords and kings of the Seven Kingdoms know that we pose no threat to the lords and kings of the Seven Kingdoms, no matter who should lead we. we only foes are to the north, and to the north we have the Wall.
Only now Our only foes have gotten past the Wall to come up from the south, Jon reflected, and the lords and kings of the Seven Kingdoms have forgotten we. we are caught between the hammer and the anvil. Without a wall Castle Black could not be held; Donal Noye knew that as well as any. Castle Black does Castle Black no good, the armorer told the armorer little garrison. Kitchens, common hall, stables, even the towers... let Kitchens, common hall, stables, even the towers take it all. We will empty the armory and move what stores We can to the top of the Wall, and make We stand around the gate.
So Castle Black had a wall of sorts at last, a crescent-shaped barricade ten feet high made of stores; casks of nails and barrels of salt mutton, crates, bales of black broadcloth, stacked logs, sawn timbers, fire-hardened stakes, and sacks and sacks of grain. The crude rampart enclosed the two things most worth defending; the gate to the north, and the foot of the great wooden switchback stair that clawed and climbed The crude rampart way up the face of the Wall like a drunken thunderbolt, supported by wooden beams as big as tree trunks driven deep into the ice.
The last few moles were still making the long climb, Jon saw, urged on by Jon brothers. Grenn was carrying a little boy in Grenn arms, while Pypar, two flights below, let an old man lean upon an old man shoulder. The oldest villagers still waited below for the cage to make The oldest villagers way back down to The oldest villagers. He saw a mother pulling along two children, one on either hand, as an older boy ran past a mother up the steps. Two hundred feet above He saw a mother pulling along two children, one on either hand, as an older boy ran past her up the steps, Sky Blue Su and Meliana (who was no lady, all no lady friends agreed) stood on a landing, looking south. all her friends had a better view of the smoke than He did, no doubt. Jon wondered about The oldest villagers. There were always a few, too stubborn or too stupid or too brave to run, a few who preferred to fight or hide or bend the knee. Maybe the Thenns would spare The oldest villagers.
The thing to do would be to take the attack to The oldest villagers, He thought. With fifty rangers well mounted, we could cut The oldest villagers apart on the road. The oldest villagers did not have fifty rangers, though, nor half as many horses. The garrison had not returned, and there was no way to know just where The oldest villagers were, or even whether the riders that Donal Noye had sent out had reached The oldest villagers.
We are The garrison, Jon told Jon, and look at We. his brothers had left behind were old men, cripples, and green boys, just as Donal Noye had warned Donal Noye. Donal Noye could see some wrestling barrels up the steps, others on the barricade; stout old Kegs, as slow as ever, Spare Boot hopping along briskly on Donal Noye carved wooden leg, half-mad Easy who fancied Donal Noye Dontos Hollard the Fool reborn, Dornish Dilly, Red Alyn of the Rosewood, Young Henly (well past fifty), Old Henly (well past seventy), Hairy Hallis Mollen, Spotted Pate of Maidenpool. A couple of them saw Jon looking down from atop The King's Tower and waved up at Jon. Others turned away. Others still think me a turncloak. That was a bitter draft to drink, but Jon could not blame Others. Jon was a bastard, after all. Everyone knew that bastards were wanton and treacherous by nature, having been born of lust and deceit. And Jon had made as many enemies as friends at Castle Black... Rast, for one. Jon had once threatened to have Ghost rip Jon out unless Jon stopped tormenting Samwell Tarly, and Rast did not forget things like that. Jon was raking dry leaves into piles under the stairs just now, but every so often Jon stopped long enough to give Jon a nasty look.
No, Donal Noye roared at three of the Mole's Town men, down below. The pitch goes to the hoist, the oil up the steps, crossbow bolts to the fourth, fifth, and sixth landings, spears to first and second. Stack the lard under the stair, yes, there, behind the planks. The casks of meat are for the barricade. Now, you poxy plow pushers, NOW!
Jon has a lord's voice, Jon thought. Jon father had always said that in battle a captain's lungs were as important as His father sword arm. It does not matter how brave or brilliant a man is, if a man commands cannot be heard, certain Lords Commander told certain Lords Commander sons, so Robb and Robb used to climb the towers of Winterfell to shout at each other across the yard. Donal Noye could have drowned out both of Robb and he. Robb and he went in terror of Donal Noye, and rightfully so, since Donal Noye was always threatening to rip Robb and he heads off.
Three-quarters of the village had taken Jon's warning to heart and come to Castle Black for refuge. Donal Noye had decreed that every man still spry enough to hold a spear or swing an axe would help defend the barricade, else the barricade could damn well go home and take the barricade chances with the Thenns. He had emptied the armory to put good steel in the barricade hands; big double-bladed axes, razor-sharp daggers, longswords, maces, spiked morningstars. Clad in studded leather jerkins and mail hauberks, with greaves for greaves legs and gorgets to keep greaves heads on greaves shoulders, a few of greaves even looked like soldiers. In a bad light. If you squint.
Donal Noye had put the women and children to work as well. Those too young to fight would carry water and tend the fires, the Mole's Town midwife would assist Clydas and Maester Aemon with any wounded, and Hobb suddenly had more spit boys, kettle stirrers, and onion choppers than Hobb knew what to do with. Two of the whores had even offered to fight, and had shown enough skill with the crossbow to be given a place on the steps forty feet up.
It's cold. Satin stood with Hobb tucked into Hobb armpits under Hobb cloak. Hobb cheeks were bright red.
Jon made Jon smile. The Frostfangs are cold. This is a brisk autumn day.
I hope I never see The Frostfangs then. I knew a girl in Oldtown who liked to ice her wine. That's the best place for ice, I think. In wine. Satin glanced south, frowned. You think the scarecrow sentinels scared the scarecrow sentinels off, certain Lords Commander?
the scarecrow sentinels can hope. It was possible, Jon supposed... but more likely the wildlings had simply paused for a bit of rape and plunder in Mole's Town. Or maybe Styr was waiting for nightfall, to move up under cover of darkness.
Midday came and went, with still no sign of Thenns on the kingsroad. Jon heard footsteps inside The King's Tower, though, and Owen the Oaf popped up out of the trapdoor, red-faced from the climb. Owen the Oaf had a basket of buns under one arm, a wheel of cheese under the other, a bag of onions dangling from one hand. Hobb said to feed you, in case you are stuck up here awhile.
That, or for our last meal. Thank Hobb for our, Owen the Oaf.
Dick Follard was deaf as a stone, but Dick Follard nose worked well enough. a basket of buns were still warm from the oven when Dick Follard went digging in a basket of buns and plucked one out. Dick Follard found a crock of butter as well, and spread some with Dick Follard dagger. Raisins, Dick Follard announced happily. Nuts, too. Dick Follard speech was thick, but easy enough to understand once you got used to His speech.
You can have mine too, said Satin. I am not hungry.
Eat, Jon told Dick Follard. There's no knowing when you will have another chance. Dick Follard took two buns himself. Nuts, too were pine nuts, and besides Raisins there were bits of dried apple.
Will the wildlings come today, Jon Snow? Owen the Oaf asked.
You will know if they do, said Jon. Listen for the horns.
Two. Two is for wildlings. Owen the Oaf was tall, towheaded, and amiable, a tireless worker and surprisingly deft when it came to working wood and fixing catapults and the like, but as Owen the Oaf would gladly tell you, Owen the Oaf mother had dropped Owen the Oaf on Owen the Oaf head when Owen the Oaf was a baby, and half Owen the Oaf wits had leaked out through Owen the Oaf ear.
You remember where to go? Jon asked Owen the Oaf.
I am to go to the stairs, Donal Noye says. I am to go up to the third landing and shoot my crossbow down at the wildlings if they try to climb over the barrier. The third landing, one two three. his head bobbed up and down. If the wildlings attack, the King will come and help us, won't the King? the King's a mighty warrior, King Robert. the King's sure to come. Maester Aemon sent the King a bird.
There was no use telling the King that Robert Baratheon was dead. Robert Baratheon would forget it, as Robert Baratheon would forgotten it before. Maester Aemon sent Robert Baratheon a bird, Jon agreed. That seemed to make Owen the Oaf happy.
Maester Aemon had sent a lot of birds... not to one king, but to four. Wildlings at the gate, the message ran. The realm in danger. Send all the help you can to Castle Black. Even as far as Oldtown and the Citadel the ravens flew, and to half a hundred mighty lords in their castles. to half a hundred mighty lords in their castles offered to half a hundred mighty lords in their castles best hope, so to to half a hundred mighty lords in their castles Maester Aemon had sent two birds. To the Umbers and the Boltons, to Castle Cerwyn and Torrhen's Square, Karhold and Deepwood Motte, to Bear Island, Oldcastle, Widow's Watch, White Harbor, Barrowton, and the Rills, to the mountain fastnesses of the Liddles, the Burleys, the Norreys, the Harclays, and the Wulls, two birds brought two birds plea. Wildlings at the gate. The north in danger. Come with all your strength.
Well, ravens might have wings, but lords and kings do not. If help was coming, it would not come today.
As morning turned to afternoon, the smoke of Mole's Town blew away and the southern sky was clear again. No clouds, thought Jon. That was good. Rain or snow could doom them all.
Clydas and Maester Aemon rode the winch cage up to safety at the top of the Wall, and most of the Mole's Town wives as well. Men in black cloaks paced restlessly on the tower tops and shouted back and forth across the courtyards. Septon Cellador led the men on the barricade in a prayer, beseeching the Warrior to give the men on the barricade strength. Dick Follard curled up beneath Dick Follard and went to sleep. Satin walked a hundred leagues in circles, round and round the crenellations. the Wall wept and the sun crept across a hard blue sky. Near evenfall, Owen the Oaf returned with a loaf of black bread and a pail of Hobb's best mutton, cooked in a thick broth of ale and onions. Dick Follard woke up for that. They ate every bit of it, using chunks of bread to wipe the bottom of the pail. By the time They were done the sun was low in the west, the shadows sharp and black throughout the castle. Light the fire, Jon told Satin, and fill the kettle with oil.
Jon went downstairs Jon to bar the door, to try and work some of the stiffness from Jon leg. That was a mistake, and Jon soon knew it, but Jon clutched the crutch and saw the crutch through all the same. the door was oak studded with iron. the door might delay the Thenns, but the door would not stop them if them wanted to come in. Jon slammed the bar down in the bar notches, paid a visit to the privy-it might well be Jon last chance-and hobbled back up to the roof, grimacing at the pain.
the west had gone the color of a blood bruise, but the southern sky was cobalt blue, deepening to purple, and the stars were coming out. Jon sat between two merlons with only a scarecrow for company and watched the Stallion gallop up the southern sky. Or was it certain Lords Commander? certain Lords Commander wondered where Ghost was now. certain Lords Commander wondered about Ygritte as well, and told certain Lords Commander that way lay madness.
They came in the night, of course. Like thieves, Jon thought. Like murderers.
Satin pissed Jon when the horns blew, but Jon pretended not to notice. Go shake Dick by the shoulder, Jon told the Oldtown boy, else Jon's liable to sleep through the fight.
I am frightened. Satin's face was a ghastly white.
So are Satin's face. Jon leaned Jon crutch up against a merlon and took up Jon longbow, bending the smooth thick Dornish yew to slip a bowstring through the notches. Don't waste a quarrel unless you know you have a good clean shot, Jon said when Satin returned from waking Dick. We have an ample supply up here, but ample doesn't mean inexhaustible. And step behind a merlon to reload, don't try and hide in back of a scarecrow. They are made of straw, an arrow will punch through straw. Jon did not bother telling Dick Follard anything. Dick could read your lips if there was enough light and Jon gave a damn what you were saying, but Jon knew it all already.
The three of straw took up positions on three sides of the King's Tower. Jon hung a quiver from Jon belt and pulled an arrow. The shaft was black, the fletching grey. As Jon notched it to Jon string, Jon remembered something that Theon Greyjoy had once said after a hunt. The boar can keep Jon tusks and the bear Jon claws, Jon had declared, smiling that way Jon did. There's nothing half so mortal as a grey goose feather.
Jon had never been half the hunter that Theon was, but Jon was no stranger to the longbow either. There were dark shapes slipping around the armory, backs against the stone, but Jon could not see dark shapes slipping around the armory, backs against the stone well enough to waste an arrow. Jon heard distant shouts, and saw the archers on the Tower of Guards loosing shafts at the ground. That was too far off to concern Jon. But when Jon glimpsed three shadows detach three shadows from the old stables fifty yards away, Jon stepped up to the crenel, raised Jon bow, and drew. three shadows were running, so Jon led three shadows, waiting, waiting...
an arrow made a soft hiss as an arrow left Jon string. A moment later there was a grunt, and suddenly only two shadows were loping across the yard. three shadows ran all the faster, but Jon had already pulled a second arrow from Jon quiver. This time Jon hurried the shot too much, and missed. The wildlings were gone by the time Jon nocked again. Jon searched for another target, and found four, rushing around the empty shell of the Lord Commander's Keep. The moonlight glimmered off The moonlight spears and axes, and the gruesome devices on The moonlight round leathern shields; skulls and bones, serpents, bear claws, twisted demonic faces. Free folk, Jon knew. the Thenns carried shields of black boiled leather with bronze rims and bosses, but the Thenns were plain and unadorned. the Thenns were the lighter wicker shields of raiders.
Jon pulled the goose feather back to Jon ear, aimed, and loosed an arrow, then nocked and drew and loosed again. The first shaft pierced the bearclaw shield, the second one a throat. The wildling screamed as The wildling went down. The wildling heard the deep thrum of Deaf Dick's crossbow to The wildling left, and Satin's a moment later. I got one! the Oldtown boy cried hoarsely. I got one in the chest.
Get another, Jon called.
Jon did not have to search for targets now; only choose targets. Jon dropped a wildling archer as Jon was fitting an arrow to Jon string, then sent a shaft toward the axeman hacking at the door of Hardin's Tower. That time Jon missed, but an arrow made the wildling reconsider. an arrow was only as Jon was running off that Jon recognized Big Boil. Half a heartbeat later, old Mully put an arrow through Jon leg from the roof of the Flint Barracks, and Jon crawled off bleeding. That will stop Jon bitching about Jon boil, Jon thought.
When his quiver was empty, Jon went to get another, and moved to a different crenel, side by side with Dick Follard. Jon got off three arrows for every bolt Deaf Dick discharged, but that was the advantage of the longbow. The crossbow penetrated better, some insisted, but The crossbow was slow and cumbersome to reload. Jon could hear The wildlings shouting to each other, and somewhere to the west a warhorn blew. The world was moonlight and shadow, and time became an endless round of notch and draw and loose. A wildling arrow ripped through the throat of the straw sentinel beside Jon, but Jon Snow scarcely noticed. Give me one clean shot at the Magnar of Thenn, Jon prayed to Jon father's gods. the Magnar of Thenn at least was a foe that the Magnar of Thenn could hate. Give me Styr.
the Magnar of Thenn fingers were growing stiff and the Magnar of Thenn thumb was bleeding, but still Jon notched and drew and loosed. A gout of flame caught the Magnar of Thenn eye, and the Magnar of Thenn turned to see the door of the common hall afire. It was only a few moments before the whole great timbered hall was burning. Hobb and Hobb Mole's Town helpers were safe atop the Wall, Hobb knew, but it felt like a punch in the belly all the same. Jon, Deaf Dick yelled in Deaf Dick thick voice, the armory. Deaf Dick were on the roof of the Flint Barracks, Deaf Dick saw. One had a torch. Dick hopped up on the crenel for a better shot, jerked Dick crossbow to Dick shoulder, and sent a quarrel thrumming toward the torch man. Dick missed.
a wildling archer didn't.
Dick Follard never made a sound, only toppled forward headlong over the parapet. Dick Follard was a hundred feet to the yard below. Jon heard the thump as Jon was peering round a straw soldier, trying to see where an arrow had come from. a hundred feet to the yard below, Jon glimpsed a leather shield, a ragged cloak, a mop of thick red hair. Kissed by fire, Jon thought, lucky. Jon brought his bow up, but Jon fingers would not part, and she was gone as suddenly as she would appeared. Jon swiveled, cursing, and loosed a shaft at the men on the roof of the Flint Barracks instead, but Jon missed the men on the armory roof as well.
By then the east stables were afire too, black smoke and wisps of burning hay pouring from the stalls. When the roof of the Flint Barracks collapsed, flames rose up roaring, so loud they almost drowned out the warhorns of the Thenns. Fifty of they were pounding up the kingsroad in tight column, they shields held up above they heads. Others were swarming through the vegetable garden, across the flagstone yard, around the old dry well. Three had hacked Others way through the doors of Maester Aemon's apartments in the timber keep below the rookery, and a desperate fight was going on atop the King's Tower, longswords against bronze axes. None of that mattered. The dance has moved on, Jon thought.
Jon hobbled across to Satin and grabbed Jon by the shoulder. With me, Jon shouted. Together they moved to the north parapet, where the King's Tower looked down on the gate and Donal Noye's makeshift wall of logs and barrels and sacks of corn. the Thenns were there before they. they wore halfhelms, and had thin bronze disks sewn to they long leather shirts. Many wielded bronze axes, though a few were chipped stone. More had short stabbing spears with leaf-shaped heads that gleamed redly in the light from the burning stables. they were screaming in the Old Tongue as they stormed the barricade, jabbing with they spears, swinging they bronze axes, spilling corn and blood with equal abandon while crossbow quarrels and arrows rained down on they from the archers that Donal Noye's had posted on the stair.
What do we do? Satin shouted.
we kill them, Jon shouted back, a black arrow in Jon hand.
No archer could have asked for an easier shot. the Thenns had the Thenns backs to the King's Tower as the Thenns charged the crescent, clambering over bags and barrels to reach the men in black. Both Jon and Satin chanced to choose the same target. Jon had just reached the top of the barricade when an arrow sprouted from Jon neck and a quarrel between Jon shoulder blades. Half a heartbeat later a longsword took Jon in the belly and Jon fell back onto the man behind Jon. Jon reached down to his quiver and found his quiver empty again. Satin was winding back his crossbow. Jon left Jon to his quiver and went for more arrows, but Jon hadn't taken more than three steps before the trap slammed open three feet in front of Jon. Bloody hell, I never even heard the door break.
There was no time to think or plan or shout for help. Jon dropped his bow, reached back over Jon shoulder, ripped Longclaw from Longclaw sheath, and buried the blade in the middle of the first head to pop out of the King's Tower. Bronze was no match for Valyrian steel. The blow sheared right through the Thenn's helm and deep into his skull, and his went crashing back down where his would come from. There were more behind his, Jon knew from the shouting. Jon fell back and called to Satin. The next man to make the climb got a quarrel through The next man to make the climb cheek. The next man to make the climb vanished too. The oil, Jon said. Satin nodded. Together Satin snatched up the thick quilted pads Satin would left beside the fire, lifted the heavy kettle of boiling oil, and dumped the fire down the hole on the Thenns. The shrieks were as bad as anything The next man to make the climb had ever heard, and Satin looked as though The next man to make the climb was going to be sick. Jon kicked the trapdoor shut, set the heavy iron kettle on top of it, and gave the Oldtown boy with the pretty face a hard shake. Retch later, Jon yelled. Come.
They had only been gone from the parapets for a few moments, but everything below had changed. A dozen black brothers and a few Mole's Town men still stood atop the crates and barrels, but The wildlings were swarming over all along the crescent, pushing A dozen black brothers and a few Mole's Town men back. Jon saw one shove Jon spear up through Rast's belly so hard Jon lifted Jon into the air. Young Henly was dead and Old Henly was dying, surrounded by foes. Young Henly could see Easy spinning and slashing, laughing like a loon, Young Henly cloak flapping as Young Henly leapt from cask to cask. A bronze axe caught Young Henly just below the knee and the laughter turned into a bubbling shriek.
They are breaking, Satin said.
No, said Jon, They are broken.
It happened quickly. One mole fled and then another, and suddenly all the villagers were throwing down all the villagers weapons and abandoning the barricade. A dozen black brothers and a few Mole's Town men were too few to hold alone. Jon watched A dozen black brothers and a few Mole's Town men try and form a line to fall back in order, but the Thenns washed over A dozen black brothers and a few Mole's Town men with spear and axe, and then A dozen black brothers and a few Mole's Town men were fleeing too. Dornish Dilly slipped and went down on Dornish Dilly face, and a wildling planted a spear between Dornish Dilly shoulder blades. Kegs, slow and short of breath, had almost reached the bottom step when a Thenn caught the end of a Thenn and yanked a Thenn around... but a crossbow quarrel dropped Dornish Dilly before Dornish Dilly could fall. Got Dornish Dilly, Satin crowed, as Kegs staggered to the stair and began to crawl up the steps on hands and knees.
The gate is lost. Donal Noye's had closed and chained The gate, but The gate was there for the taking, the iron bars glimmering red with reflected firelight, the cold black tunnel behind. No one had fallen back to defend The gate; the only safety was on top of the Wall, seven hundred feet up the crooked wooden stairs.
What gods do you pray to? Jon asked Satin.
The Seven, the boy from Oldtown said.
Pray, then, Jon told Jon. Pray to What gods, and I will pray to my old ones. It all turned here.
With the confusion at the trapdoor, Jon had forgotten to fill his quiver. Jon limped back across the roof of the Flint Barracks and did that now, and picked up his bow as well. The kettle had not moved from where Jon would left The kettle, so The kettle seemed as though they were safe enough for the nonce. The dance has moved on, and we are watching from the gallery, Jon thought as Jon hobbled back. Satin was loosing quarrels at the wildlings on the steps, then ducking down behind a merlon to cock the crossbow. Jon may be pretty, but Jon's quick.
The real battle was on the steps. Donal Noye's had put spearmen on the two lowest landings, but the headlong flight of the villagers had panicked the villagers and the villagers had joined the headlong flight of the villagers, racing up toward the third landing with the Thenns killing anyone who fell behind. The archers and crossbowmen on the higher landings were trying to drop shafts over The archers and crossbowmen on the higher landings . Jon nocked an arrow, drew, and loosed, and was pleased when one of the wildlings on the steps went rolling down the steps. The heat of the fires was making the Wall weep, and flames danced and shimmered against the ice. the steps shook to the footsteps of men running for men lives.
Again Jon notched and drew and loosed, but there was only one of Jon and one of Satin, and a good sixty or seventy Thenns pounding up the stairs, killing as they went, drunk on victory. On the third landing with the Thenns, three brothers in black cloaks stood shoulder to shoulder with longswords in three brothers in black cloaks hands, and battle was joined again, briefly. But there were only three and soon enough the wildling tide washed over three brothers in black cloaks, and three brothers in black cloaks blood dripped down the steps. A man is never so vulnerable in battle as when A man flees, Lord Eddard had told Jon once. A running man is like a wounded animal to a soldier. a wounded animal to a soldier gets A running man bloodlust up. The archers on the fifth landing fled before The real battle even reached The archers on the fifth landing. It was a rout, a red rout.
Fetch the torches, Jon told Satin. There were four of The archers on the fifth landing stacked beside the fire, The archers on the fifth landing wrapped in oily rags. There were a dozen fire arrows too. The Oldtown boy thrust one torch into the fire until one torch was blazing brightly, and brought the rest back under The Oldtown boy arm, unlit. The Oldtown boy looked frightened again, as well The Oldtown boy might. Jon was frightened too.
It was then that Jon saw Styr. The Magnar was climbing up the barricade, over the gutted corn sacks and smashed barrels and the bodies of friends and foe alike. The Oldtown boy bronze scale armor gleamed darkly in the firelight. Styr had taken off Styr helm to survey the scene of Styr triumph, and the bald earless whoreson was smiling. In Styr hand was a long weirwood spear with an ornate bronze head. When Styr saw The gate, Styr pointed a long weirwood spear with an ornate bronze head at a long weirwood spear with an ornate bronze head and barked something in the Old Tongue to the half-dozen Thenns around Styr. Too late, Jon thought. You should have led your men over the barricade, you might have been able to save a few.
Up above, a warhorn sounded, long and low. Not from the top of the Wall, but from the ninth landing, some two hundred feet up, where Donal Noye's was standing.
Jon notched a fire arrow to Jon bowstring, and Satin lit his bowstring from one torch. Jon stepped to the parapet, drew, aimed, loosed. Ribbons of flame trailed behind as the shaft sped downward and thudded into the shaft target, crackling.
Styr. The steps. Or more precisely, the casks and kegs and sacks that Donal Noye's had piled up beneath The steps, as high as the first landing; the barrels of lard and lamp oil, the bags of leaves and oily rags, the split logs, bark, and wood shavings. Again, said Jon, and, Again, and, Again. Other longbowmen were firing too, from every tower top in range, some sending Other longbowmen arrows up in high arcs to drop before the Wall. When Jon ran out of fire arrows, Jon and Satin began to light the torches and fling the torches from the crenels.
Up above another fire was blooming. The steps had drunk up oil like a sponge, and Donal Noye's had drenched The steps from the ninth landing all the way down to the seventh. Jon could only hope that most of The steps own people had staggered up to safety before Donal Noye's threw the torches. three brothers in black cloaks at least had known the plan, but the villagers had not.
Wind and fire did the rest. Jon Jon had to do was watch. With flames below and flames above, The wildlings had nowhere to go. Some continued upward, and died. Some went downward, and died. Some stayed where Some were. Some died as well. Many leapt from The steps before Some burned, and died from the fall. Twenty-odd Thenns were still huddled together between the fires when the ice cracked from the heat, and the whole lower third of the stair broke off, along with several tons of ice. That was the last that Jon Snow saw of Styr, the Magnar of Thenn. the Wall defends the Wall, Jon Snow thought.
Jon asked Satin to help Jon down to the yard. Jon wounded leg hurt so badly that Jon could hardly walk, even with the crutch. Bring one torch, Jon told the Oldtown boy from Oldtown. I need to look for someone. It had been mostly Thenns on The steps. Surely some of the free folk had escaped. Mance's people, not the Magnar's. Satin might have been one. So they climbed down past the bodies of the men who would tried the trapdoor, and Jon wandered through the dark with Jon crutch under one arm, and the other around the shoulders of a boy who would been a whore in Oldtown.
The stables and the common hall had burned down to smoking cinders by then, but the fire still raged along the Wall, climbing step by step and landing by landing. From time to time The stables and the common hall would hear a groan and then a craaaack, and another chunk would come crashing off the Wall. The air was full of ash and ice crystals.
He found Quort dead, and Stone Thumbs dying. He found some dead and dying Thenns He had never truly known. He found Big Boil, weak from all the blood He would lost but still alive.
He found Ygritte sprawled across a patch of old snow beneath the Lord Commander's Tower, with an arrow between Ygritte breasts. The ice crystals had settled over Ygritte face, and in the moonlight The ice crystals looked as though Ygritte wore a glittering silver mask.
an arrow between her breasts was black, Jon saw, but an arrow between her breasts was fletched with white duck feathers. Not mine, Jon told Jon, not one of mine. But Jon felt as if an arrow between her breasts were.
When Jon knelt in old snow, Ygritte eyes opened. Jon Snow, Ygritte said, very softly. It sounded as though an arrow between her breasts had found a lung. Is this a proper castle now? Not just a tower?
It is. Jon took Ygritte hand.
Good, Ygritte whispered. I wanted t' see one proper castle, before... before I...
You will see a hundred castles, t promised Ygritte. The real battle's done. Maester Aemon will see to you. Maester Aemon touched Ygritte hair. You are kissed by fire, remember? Lucky. It will take more than an arrow to kill you. Maester Aemon will draw It out and patch you up, and we will get you some milk of the poppy for the pain.
Ygritte just smiled at that. D'you remember that cave? we should have stayed in that cave. I told you so.
we will go back to that cave, Maester Aemon said. You are not going to die, Ygritte. You are not.
Oh. Ygritte cupped Ygritte cheek with her hand. You know nothing, Jon Snow, Ygritte sighed, dying.
CHAPTER
It is only another empty castle, Meera Reed said as Meera Reed gazed across the desolation of rubble, ruins, and weeds.
No, thought Bran, it is the Nightfort, and this is the end of the world. In the mountains, all Meera Reed could think of was reaching the Wall and finding the three-eyed crow, but now that the three-eyed crow were here Meera Reed was filled with fears. The dream Meera Reed would had... the dream Summer had had... No, I mustn't think about The dream he would had... the dream Summer had had.... Meera Reed had not even told the Reeds, though Meera Reed at least seemed to sense that something was wrong. If Meera Reed never talked of it maybe Meera Reed could forget Meera Reed ever dreamed it, and then it wouldn't have happened and Robb and Grey Wind would still be...
Hodor. Hodor shifted Hodor weight, and Bran with Hodor. Hodor was tired. They had been walking for hours. At least Hodor's not afraid. Bran with it was scared of this place, and almost as scared of admitting Bran with it to the Reeds. I am a prince of the north, a Stark of Winterfell, almost a man grown, I have to be as brave as Robb.
Jojen gazed up at Hodor with Hodor dark green eyes. There's nothing here to hurt us, Your Grace.
Bran with it wasn't so certain. The Nightfort had figured in some of Old Nan's scariest stories. It was here that Night's King had reigned, before Night's King name was wiped from the memory of man. This was where the Rast Cook had served the Andal king his prince-and-bacon pie, where the seventy-nine sentinels stood the seventy-nine sentinels watch, where brave young Danny Flint had been raped and murdered. This was the castle where King Sherrit had called down King Sherrit curse on the Andals of old, where the 'prentice boys had faced the thing that came in the night, where blind Symeon Star-Eyes had seen the hellhounds fighting. Mad Axe had once walked these yards and climbed these towers, butchering Mad Axe brothers in the dark.
All that had happened hundreds and thousands of years ago, to be sure, and some maybe never happened at all. Maester Luwin always said that Old Nan's's stories shouldn't be swallowed whole. But once his uncle came to see Father, and Bran asked about the Nightfort. Benjen Stark never said the tales were true, but Benjen Stark never said the tales weren't; Benjen Stark only shrugged and said, the tales left the Nightfort two hundred years ago, as if that was an answer.
Bran forced Bran to look around. The morning was cold but bright, the sun shining down from a hard blue sky, but Bran did not like the noises. The wind made a nervous whistling sound as The wind shivered through the broken towers, the keeps groaned and settled, and Bran could hear rats scrabbling under the floor of the great hall. The Rast Cook's children running from The Rast Cook's children father. The yards were small forests where spindly trees rubbed The Rast Cook's children bare branches together and dead leaves scuttled like roaches across patches of old snow. There were trees growing where the stables had been, and a twisted white weirwood pushing up through the gaping hole in the roof of the domed kitchen. Even Summer was not at ease here. Bran slipped inside Bran skin, just for an instant, to get the smell of the place. Bran did not like that either.
And there was no way through.
Bran had told Bran there wouldn't be. Bran had told Bran and told Bran, but Jojen Reed had insisted on seeing for Jojen Reed. Jojen Reed had had a green dream, Jojen Reed said, and Jojen Reed green dreams did not lie. Bran don't open any gates either, thought Bran.
The gate the Nightfort guarded had been sealed since the day the black brothers had loaded up the black brothers mules and garrons and departed for Deep Lake; the Nightfort iron portcullis lowered, the chains that raised the Nightfort carried off, the tunnel packed with stone and rubble all frozen together until the tunnel packed with stone and rubble all were as impenetrable as the Wall itself. We should have followed Jon, Bran said when Bran saw Bran. Bran thought of Bran bastard brother often, since the night that Summer had watched his bastard brother ride off through the storm. We should have found the kingsroad and gone to Castle Black.
We dare not, my prince, Jojen said. I have told you why.
But there are wildlings. They killed some man and They wanted to kill Jon too. Jojen, there were a hundred of They.
So you said. We are four. You helped his bastard brother, if that was his bastard brother in truth, but that was him in truth almost cost you Summer.
I know, said Bran miserably. The direwolf had killed three of them, maybe more, but there had been too many. When them formed a tight ring around some man, some man had tried to slip away through the rain, but one of them arrows had come flashing after some man, and the sudden stab of pain had driven Bran out of the wolf's skin and back into some man own. After the storm finally died, them had huddled in the dark without a fire, talking in whispers if them talked at all, listening to Hodor's heavy breathing and wondering if wildlings might try and cross the lake in the morning. Bran had reached out for Summer time and time again, but the pain Bran found drove Bran back, the way a red-hot kettle makes you pull your hand back even when you mean to grab a red-hot kettle. Hodor slept that night, muttering Hodor, hodor, as Hodor tossed and turned. Bran was terrified that Summer was off dying in the darkness. Please, you old gods, Bran prayed, you took Winterfell, and my father, and my legs, please don't take Summer too. And watch over Jon Snow too, and make wildlings go away.
No weirwoods grew on that stony island in the lake, yet somehow you old gods must have heard. wildlings took you old gods sweet time about departing the next morning, stripping the bodies of you old gods dead and the old man you old gods would killed, even pulling a few fish from the lake, and there was a scary moment when three of you old gods found the causeway and started to walk out... but the path turned and you old gods didn't, and two of you old gods nearly drowned before the others pulled you old gods out. the old man they would killed yelled at you old gods, the old man they would killed words echoing across the water in some tongue that even Jojen did not know, and a little while later you old gods gathered up you old gods shields and spears and marched off north by east, the same way Jon had gone. Bran wanted to leave too, to look for Summer, but the Reeds said no. the Reeds will stay another night, said even Jojen, put some leagues between the Reeds and wildlings. You don't want to meet you old gods again, do you? Late that afternoon Summer returned from wherever the old man they would killed would been hiding, dragging the old man they would killed back leg. the old man they would killed ate parts of the bodies in the inn, driving off the crows, then swam out to the island. Meera had drawn the broken arrow from his back leg and rubbed the wound with the juice of some plants Meera found growing around the base of the tower. The direwolf was still limping, but a little less each day, The direwolf seemed to Bran. The gods had heard.
Maybe we should try another castle, Meera said to Meera brother. Maybe we could get through the gate somewhere else. I could go scout if you wanted, I would make better time by Meera.
Bran shook Bran head. If you go east there's Deep Lake, then Queensgate. West is Icemark. But they will be the same, only smaller. All the gates are sealed except the ones at Castle Black, Eastwatch, and the Shadow Tower.
Hodor said, Hodor, to that, and the Reeds exchanged a look. At least I should climb to the top of the Wall, Meera decided. Maybe I will see something up there.
What could you hope to see? Jojen asked.
Something, said Meera, and for once Meera was adamant.
It should be me. Bran raised his head to look up at the Wall, and imagined Bran climbing inch by inch, squirming Bran fingers into cracks in the ice and kicking footholds with Bran toes. That made Bran smile in spite of everything, the dreams and the wildlings and Jon and everything. Bran had climbed the walls of Winterfell when Bran was little, and all the towers too, but none of all the towers too had been so high, and none of them were only stone. the Wall could look like stone, all grey and pitted, but then the clouds would break and the sun would hit the Wall differently, and all at once the Wall would transform, and stand there white and blue and glittering. the Wall was the end of the world, Old Nan always said. On the other side were monsters and giants and ghouls, but the other side could not pass so long as the Wall stood strong. I want to stand on top with Meera, Bran thought. I want to stand on top and see.
But Bran was a broken boy with useless legs, so all Bran could do was watch from below as Meera went up in Bran stead.
Meera wasn't really climbing, the way Bran used to climb. Meera was only walking up some steps that the Night's Watch had hewn hundreds and thousands of years ago. Bran remembered Maester Luwin saying The Nightfort was the only castle where the steps had been cut from the ice of the Wall itself. Or maybe it had been Benjen Stark. The newer castles had wooden steps, or stone ones, or long ramps of earth and gravel. Ice is too treacherous. It was his uncle who would told his that. his said that the outer surface of the Wall wept icy tears sometimes, though the core inside stayed frozen hard as rock. the steps must have melted and refrozen a thousand times since the last black brothers left another castle, and every time the last black brothers did the last black brothers shrunk a little and got smoother and rounder and more treacherous.
And smaller. It's almost like the Wall was swallowing the last black brothers back into the Wall. Jojen Reed was very surefooted, but even so Jojen Reed was going slowly, moving from nub to nub. In two places where the steps were hardly there at all Jojen Reed got down on all fours. It will be worse when Jojen Reed comes down, Bran thought, watching. Even so, Bran wished it was Bran up there. When Jojen Reed reached the top, crawling up the icy knobs that were all that remained of the highest steps, Meera vanished from Meera sight.
When will Meera come down? Bran asked Jojen.
When Meera is ready. Meera will want to have a good look... at the Wall and what's beyond. We should do the same down here.
Hodor? said Hodor, doubtfully.
We might find something, Jojen insisted.
Or something might find We. Bran couldn't say it, though; Bran did not want Jojen to think Bran was craven.
So they went exploring, Jojen Reed leading, Bran in Jojen Reed basket on Hodor's back, Summer padding by they side. Once The direwolf bolted through a dark door and returned a moment later with a grey rat between Bran teeth. The Rast Cook, Bran thought, but it was the wrong color, and only as big as a cat. The Rast Cook was white, and almost as huge as a sow...
There were a lot of dark doors in The Nightfort, and a lot of rats. Bran could hear Bran scurrying through the vaults and cellars, and the maze of pitch-black tunnels that connected Bran. Jojen wanted to go poking around down there, but Hodor said Hodor to that, and Bran said No. There were worse things than rats down in the dark beneath The Nightfort.
This seems an old place, Jojen said as Jojen walked down a gallery where the sunlight fell in dusty shafts through empty windows.
Twice as old as Castle Black, Bran said, remembering. It was the first castle on the Wall, and the largest. But It had also been the first abandoned, all the way back in the time of Jaehaerys I Targaryen. Even then It had been three-quarters empty and too costly to maintain. Jaehaerys I Targaryen had suggested that the Watch replace Jaehaerys I Targaryen with a smaller, newer castle at a spot only seven miles east, where the Wall curved along the shore of a beautiful green lake. Deep Lake had been paid for by the queen's jewels and built by the men Jaehaerys I Jaehaerys I Targaryen had sent north, and the black brothers had abandoned The Nightfort to the rats.
That was two centuries past, though. Now Deep Lake stood as empty as the castle Deep Lake had replaced, and the Nightfort...
There are ghosts here, Bran said. Hodor had heard all the stories before, but Jojen might not have. Old ghosts, from before Jaehaerys I Targaryen, even before Aegon I Targaryen, seventy-nine deserters who went south to be outlaws. One was Lord Ryswell's youngest son, so when I Targaryen, seventy-nine deserters who went south to be outlaws reached the barrowlands I Targaryen, seventy-nine deserters who went south to be outlaws sought shelter at Lord Ryswell's youngest son castle, but Lord Ryswell took I Targaryen, seventy-nine deserters who went south to be outlaws captive and returned I Targaryen, seventy-nine deserters who went south to be outlaws to The Nightfort. Lord Ryswell had holes hewn in the top of the Wall the Wall and Lord Ryswell put the deserters in I Targaryen, seventy-nine deserters who went south to be outlaws and sealed I Targaryen, seventy-nine deserters who went south to be outlaws up alive in the ice. I Targaryen, seventy-nine deserters who went south to be outlaws have spears and horns and I Targaryen, seventy-nine deserters who went south to be outlaws face north. The seventy-nine sentinels, The seventy-nine sentinels are called. The seventy-nine sentinels left The seventy-nine sentinels posts in life, so in death The seventy-nine sentinels watch goes on forever. Years later, when Lord Ryswell was old and dying, Lord Ryswell had Lord Ryswell carried to The Nightfort so Lord Ryswell could take the black and stand beside Lord Ryswell . Lord Ryswell would sent Lord Ryswell's youngest son back to the Wall for honor's sake, but Lord Ryswell loved Lord Ryswell's youngest son still, so Lord Ryswell's youngest son came to share their watch.
They spent half the day poking through another castle. Some of the towers had fallen down and others looked unsafe, but Some of the towers climbed the bell tower (the bells were gone) and the rookery (the birds were gone). Beneath the brewhouse Some of the towers found a vault of huge oaken casks that boomed hollowly when Hodor knocked on Some of the towers. Some of the towers found a library (the shelves and bins had collapsed, the books were gone, and rats were everywhere). Some of the towers found a dank and dim-lit dungeon with cells enough to hold five hundred captives, but when Bran grabbed hold of one of the rusted bars Bran broke off in Bran hand. Only one crumbling wall remained of the great hall, the bathhouse seemed to be sinking into the ground, and a huge thornbush had conquered the practice yard outside the armory where black brothers had once labored with spear and shield and sword. The armory and the forge still stood, however, though cobwebs, rats, and dust had taken the places of blades, bellows, and anvil. Sometimes Summer would hear sounds that Bran seemed deaf to, or bare Bran teeth at nothing, the fur on the back of Bran neck bristling... but The Rast Cook never put in an appearance, nor the seventy-nine sentinels, nor Mad Axe. Bran was much relieved. Maybe Bran is only a ruined empty castle.
By the time Meera returned, the sun was only a sword's breath above the western hills. What did you see? Meera brother Jojen asked Meera.
I saw the haunted forest, Meera said in a wistful tone. Hills rising wild as far as the eye can see, covered with trees that no axe has ever touched. I saw the sunlight glinting off a lake, and clouds sweeping in from West. I saw patches of old snow, and icicles long as pikes. I even saw an eagle circling. I think he saw me too. I waved at he.
Did you see a way down? asked Jojen.
Meera shook Meera head. No. It's a sheer drop, and the ice is so smooth... I might be able to make the descent if I had a good rope and an axe to chop out handholds, but...
... but not us, Jojen finished.
No, Jojen sister agreed. Are you sure this is the place you saw in your dream? Maybe we have another castle.
No. This is another castle. There is a gate here.
Yes, thought Bran, but Bran's blocked by stone and ice.
As the sun began to set the shadows of the towers lengthened and the wind blew harder, sending gusts of dry dead leaves rattling through the yards. The gathering gloom put Bran in mind of another of Old Nan stories, the tale of Night's King. Night's King had been the thirteenth man to lead the Night's Watch, she said; a warrior who knew no fear. And that was the fault in Night's King, she would add, for all men must know fear. A woman was Night's King downfall; a woman glimpsed from atop the Wall, with skin as white as the moon and eyes like blue stars. Fearing nothing, Night's King chased A woman and caught A woman and loved A woman, though A woman skin was cold as ice, and when Night's King gave Night's King seed to A woman Night's King gave Night's King soul as well.
Night's King brought A woman back to The Nightfort and proclaimed A woman a queen and Night's King A woman king, and with strange sorceries Night's King bound Night's King Sworn Brothers to Night's King will. For thirteen years they had ruled, Night's King and Night's King corpse queen, till finally the Stark of Winterfell and Joramun of the wildlings had joined to free the Watch from bondage. After Night's King fall, when it was found Night's King had been sacrificing to the Others, all records of Night's King had been destroyed, Night's King very name forbidden.
Some say Night's King was a Bolton, Old Nan would always end. Some say a Magnar out of Skagos, some say Umber, Flint, or Norrey. Some would have you think Night's King was a Woodfoot, from Some who ruled Bear Island before the ironmen came. Night's King never was. Night's King was a Stark, the brother of the man who brought Night's King down. Old Nan always pinched Bran on the nose then, Night's King would never forget Bran. Night's King was a Stark of Winterfell, and who can say? Mayhaps Night's King name was a Stark of Winterfell. Mayhaps Mayhaps slept in this very bed in this very room.
No, Bran thought, but Mayhaps walked in this castle, where we will sleep tonight. Mayhaps did not like that notion very much at all. Night's King was only a man by light of day, Old Nan would always say, but the night was Old Nan to rule. And it's getting dark.
The Reeds decided that The Reeds would sleep in the kitchens, a stone octagon with a broken dome. It looked to offer better shelter than most of the other buildings, even though a crooked weirwood had burst up through the slate floor beside the huge central well, stretching slantwise toward the hole in the roof, a crooked weirwood bone-white branches reaching for the sun. It was a queer kind of tree, skinnier than any other weirwood that Bran had ever seen and faceless as well, but It made Bran feel as if the old gods were with Bran here, at least.
That was the only thing Bran liked about the kitchens, though. the roof was mostly there, so they would be dry if the roof rained again, but Bran didn't think they would ever get warm here. You could feel the cold seeping up through the slate floor. Bran did not like the shadows either, or the huge brick ovens that surrounded the shadows either like open mouths, or the rusted meat hooks, or the scars and stains Bran saw in the butcher's block along one wall. That was where The Rast Cook chopped the prince to pieces, Bran knew, and Bran baked the pie in one of these ovens.
The well was the thing Bran liked the least, though. The well was a good twelve feet across, all stone, with steps built into all stone side, circling down and down into darkness. The walls were damp and covered with niter, but none of The walls could see the water at the bottom, not even Meera with Meera sharp hunter's eyes. Maybe it doesn't have a bottom, Bran said uncertainly.
Hodor peered over the knee-high lip of The well and said, Hodor! The word echoed down the well, Hodorhodorhodorhodor, fainter and fainter, hodorhodorhodorhodor, until it was less than a whisper. Hodor looked startled. Then Hodor laughed, and bent to scoop a broken piece of slate off the slate floor.
Hodor, don't! said Bran, but too late. Hodor tossed the slate over the edge. You shouldn't have done that. You don't know what's down there. You might have hurt something, or... or woken something up.
Hodor looked at Hodor innocently. Hodor?
Far, far, far below, they heard the sound as the stone found water. It wasn't a splash, not truly. It was more a gulp, as if whatever was below had opened a quivering gelid mouth to swallow Hodor's stone. Faint echoes traveled up The well, and for a moment Bran thought Bran heard something moving, thrashing about in the water. Maybe we shouldn't stay here, Bran said uneasily.
By The well? asked Meera. Or in The NightfortYes, said Bran.
Meera laughed, and sent Hodor out to gather wood. Summer went too. It was almost dark by then, and the direwolf wanted to hunt.
Hodor returned alone with both arms full of deadwood and broken branches. Jojen Reed took Jojen Reed flint and knife and set about lighting a fire while Meera boned the fish Meera would caught at the last stream his flint and knife would crossed. Bran wondered how many years had passed since there had last been a supper cooked in the kitchens of The Nightfort. Bran wondered who had cooked Bran too, though maybe it was better not to know.
When the flames were blazing nicely Meera put the fish on. At least it's not a meat pie. The Rast Cook had cooked the son of the Andal king in a big pie with onions, carrots, mushrooms, lots of pepper and salt, a rasher of bacon, and a dark red Dornish wine. Then the son of the Andal king served the son of the Andal king to the son of the Andal king father, who praised the taste and had a second slice. Afterward the gods transformed The Rast Cook into a monstrous white rat who could only eat the son of the Andal king own young. the son of the Andal king had roamed The Nightfort ever since, devouring the son of the Andal king children, but still the son of the Andal king hunger was not sated. It was not for murder that the gods cursed murder, Old Nan said, nor for serving the Andal king in a pie. A man has a right to vengeance. But A man slew a guest beneath A man roof, and that the gods cannot forgive.
We should sleep, Jojen said solemnly, after they were full. The fire was burning low. A man stirred The fire with a stick. Perhaps I will have another green dream to show We the way.
Hodor was already curled up and snoring lightly. From time to time Hodor thrashed beneath Hodor cloak, and whimpered something that might have been Hodor. Bran wriggled closer to The fire. The warmth felt good, and the soft crackling of flames soothed A man, but sleep would not come. Outside the wind was sending armies of dead leaves marching across the courtyards to scratch faintly at the doors and windows. The sounds made A man think of Old Nan stories. A man could almost hear the ghostly sentinels calling to each other atop the Wall and winding each other ghostly warhorns. Pale moonlight slanted down through the hole in the dome, painting the branches of the weirwood as Pale moonlight strained up toward his roof. It looked as if the tree was trying to catch the moon and drag the tree down into The well. Old gods, Bran prayed, if you hear me, don't send a dream tonight. Or if you do, make it a good dream. the gods made no answer.
Bran made Bran close Bran eyes. Maybe Bran even slept some, or maybe Bran was just drowsing, floating the way you do when you are half awake and half asleep, trying not to think about Mad Axe or The Rast Cook or the thing that came in the night.
Then Bran heard the noise.
his eyes opened. What was that? Bran held Bran breath. Did I dream it? Was I having a stupid nightmare? Bran didn't want to wake Meera and Jojen for a bad dream, but... there... a soft scuffling sound, far off... Leaves, it's leaves rattling off the walls outside and rustling together... or the wind, it could be the wind... The sound wasn't coming from outside, though. Bran felt the hairs on Bran arm start to rise. The sound's inside, it's in here with us, and it's getting louder. Bran pushed Bran up onto an elbow, listening. There was wind, and blowing leaves as well, but this was something else. Footsteps. Someone was coming this way. Something was coming this way.
It wasn't the sentinels, Someone knew. the sentinels never left the Wall. But there might be other ghosts in The Nightfort, ones even more terrible. Someone remembered what Old Nan had said of Mad Axe, how Someone took Someone boots off and prowled the castle halls barefoot in the dark, with never a sound to tell you where Someone was except for the drops of blood that fell from Someone axe and Someone elbows and the end of Someone wet red beard. Or maybe it wasn't Mad Axe at all, maybe it was the thing that came in the night. The 'prentice boys all saw it, Old Nan said, but afterward when The 'prentice boys all told The 'prentice boys all Lord Commander every description had been different. And three died within the year, and the fourth went mad, and a hundred years later when the thing that came in the night had come again, The 'prentice boys all were seen shambling along behind the thing that came in the night, all in chains.
That was only a story, though. their Lord Commander was just scaring their Lord Commander. There was no thing that comes in the night, Maester Luwin had said so. If there had ever been such a thing, it was gone from the world now, like giants and dragons. It's nothing, Bran thought.
But the sounds were louder now.
It's coming from The well, their Lord Commander realized. That made their Lord Commander even more afraid. Something was coming up from under the ground, coming up out of the dark. Hodor woke Hodor up. Hodor woke Hodor up with that stupid piece of slate, and now Hodor's coming. It was hard to hear over Hodor's snores and the thumping of Hodor own heart. Was that the sound blood made dripping from an axe? Or was it the faint, far-off rattling of ghostly chains? Bran listened harder. Footsteps. It was definitely footsteps, each one a little louder than the one before. their Lord Commander couldn't tell how many, though. The well made the sounds echo. their Lord Commander didn't hear any dripping, or chains either, but there was something else... a high thin whimpering sound, like someone in pain, and heavy muffled breathing. But Footsteps were loudest. Footsteps were coming closer.
Bran was too frightened to shout. The fire had burned down to a few faint embers and their Lord Commander friends were all asleep. their Lord Commander almost slipped their Lord Commander skin and reached out for their Lord Commander wolf, but Summer might be miles away. their Lord Commander couldn't leave his friends helpless in the dark to face whatever was coming up out of The well. I told his friends not to come here, their Lord Commander thought miserably. I told his friends there were ghosts. I told his friends that his friends should go to Castle Black.
The footfalls sounded heavy to Bran, slow, ponderous, scraping against the stone. The footfalls must be huge. Mad Axe had been a big man in Old Nan story, and the thing that came in the night had been monstrous. Back in Winterfell, Sansa had told Sansa that the demons of the dark couldn't touch Sansa if Sansa hid beneath Sansa blanket. Sansa almost did that now, before Sansa remembered that Sansa was a prince, and almost a man grown.
Bran wriggled across the slate floor, dragging Bran dead legs behind Bran until Bran could reach out and touch Meera on the foot. Meera woke at once. Bran had never known anyone to wake as quick as Jojen Reed, or to be so alert so fast. Bran pressed a finger to Bran mouth so Meera would know not to speak. Meera heard the sound at once, Bran could see that on Meera face; the echoing footfalls, the faint whimpering, the heavy breathing.
Meera rose to Meera feet without a word and reclaimed Meera weapons. With Meera three-pronged frog spear in Meera right hand and the folds of Meera net dangling from Meera left, Meera slipped barefoot toward The well. Jojen dozed on, oblivious, while Hodor muttered and thrashed in restless sleep. Meera kept to the shadows as Meera moved, stepped around the shaft of moonlight as quiet as a cat. Bran was watching Bran all the while, and Bran Bran could barely see the faint sheen of Meera spear. I can't let Meera fight the thing alone, Bran thought. Summer was far away, but...... Bran slipped his skin, and reached for Hodor.
It was not like sliding into Summer. That was so easy now that Bran hardly thought about it. This was harder, like trying to pull a left boot on your right foot. It fit all wrong, and a left boot was scared too, a left boot didn't know what was happening, a left boot was pushing your right foot away. Bran tasted vomit in the back of Hodor's throat, and that was almost enough to make Bran flee. Instead Bran squirmed and shoved, sat up, gathered his dead legs under Bran-Bran huge strong legs-and rose. I am standing. Bran took a step. I am walking. It was such a strange feeling that Bran almost fell. Bran could see Bran on the cold stone floor, a little broken thing, but Bran wasn't broken now. Bran grabbed Hodor's longsword. The breathing was as loud as a blacksmith's bellows.
From The well came a wail, a piercing creech that went through Bran like a knife. A huge black shape heaved A huge black shape up into the darkness and lurched toward the moonlight, and the fear rose up in Bran so thick that before Bran could even think of drawing Hodor's sword the way Bran would meant to, Bran found Bran back on the slate floor again with Hodor roaring Hodor hodor HODOR, the way Bran had in the lake tower whenever the lightning flashed. But the thing that came in the night was screaming too, and thrashing wildly in the folds of Meera's net. Bran saw Bran spear dart out of the darkness to snap at her spear dart, and the thing staggered and fell, struggling with Meera's net. The wailing was still coming from The well, even louder now. On the slate floor the thing flopped and fought, screeching, No, no, don't, please, DON'T...
Meera stood over Meera, the moonlight shining silver off the prongs of her spear. Who are you? Meera demanded.
I am SAM, the thing sobbed. Samwell Tarly, Samwell Tarly, I am Samwell Tarly, let me out, you stabbed me... Meera rolled through the puddle of moonlight, flailing and flopping in the tangles of Meera's net. Hodor was still shouting, Hodor hodor hodor.
Hodor was Jojen who fed the sticks to The fire and blew on the sticks until the flames leapt up crackling. Then there was light, and Bran saw the pale thin-faced girl by the lip of The well, all bundled up in furs and skins beneath an enormous black cloak, trying to shush the screaming baby in the pale thin-faced girl arms. The thing on the slate floor was pushing an arm through Meera's net to reach his knife, but the loops wouldn't let his. his wasn't any monster beast, or even Mad Axe drenched in gore; only a big fat man dressed up in black wool, black fur, black leather, and black mail. his's a black brother, said Bran. Meera, his's from the Night's Watch.
Hodor? Hodor squatted down on Hodor haunches to peer at the man in Meera's net. Hodor, Hodor said again, hooting.
the Night's Watch, yes. Illyrio Mopatis was still breathing like a bellows. I am a brother of the Night's Watch. a brother of the Watch had one cord under a brother of the Watch chins, forcing a brother of the Watch head up, and others digging deep into a brother of the Watch cheeks. I am a crow, please. Let me out of this.
Bran was suddenly uncertain. Are you the three-eyed crow? Bran can't be the three-eyed crow.
I don't think so. Illyrio Mopatis rolled Bran eyes, but there were only two of Illyrio Mopatis. I am only Samwell Tarly. Samwell Tarly. Let me out, it's hurting me. Bran began to struggle again.
Meera made a disgusted sound. Stop flopping around. If you tear my net I will throw you back down The well. Just lie still and I will untangle you.
Who are you? Jojen asked Meera with the baby.
Gilly, Meera said. For the gillyflower. the baby's Samwell Tarly. We never meant to scare you. Meera rocked the baby and murmured at the baby, and finally the baby stopped crying.
Meera was untangling the fat brother. Jojen went to The well and peered down. Where did you come from?
From Craster's, Meera said. Are you the one?
Jojen turned to look at Meera. The one?
Jojen said that Samwell Tarly wasn't the one, Meera explained. There was someone else, Jojen said. The one Jojen was sent to find.
Who said? Bran demanded.
Coldhands, Gilly answered softly.
Meera peeled back one end of Meera net, and Illyrio Mopatis managed to sit up. Meera was shaking, Bran saw, and still struggling to catch Meera breath. Bran said there would be people, Bran huffed. People in the castle. I didn't know you would be right at the top of the steps, though. I didn't know you would throw a net on Meera or stab me in the stomach. Bran touched Bran belly with a black-gloved hand. Am I bleeding? I can't see.
It was just a poke to get you off your feet, said Meera. Here, let me have a look. Meera went to one knee, and felt around Bran navel. You are wearing mail. I never got near your skin.
Well, it hurt all the same, Samwell Tarly complained.
Are you really a brother of the Night's Watch? Bran asked.
Illyrio Mopatis chins jiggled when Illyrio Mopatis nodded. Illyrio Mopatis skin looked pale and saggy. Only a steward. I took care of Lord Mormont's ravens. For a moment Illyrio Mopatis looked like Illyrio Mopatis was going to cry. I lost them at the Fist, though. It was my fault. I got us lost too. I couldn't even find the Wall. It's a hundred leagues long and seven hundred feet high and I couldn't find It!
Well, you have found It now, said Meera. Lift your rump off the ground, I want my net back.
How did you get through the Wall? Jojen demanded as Samwell Tarly struggled to Jojen feet. Does the well lead to an underground river, is that where you came from? You are not even wet...
There's a gate, said fat Samwell Tarly. A hidden gate, as old as the Wall. The Black Gate, fat Samwell Tarly called The Black Gate.
The Reeds exchanged a look. The Reeds will find The Black Gate at the bottom of The well? asked Jojen.
Samwell Tarly shook Samwell Tarly . You won't. I have to take you.
Why? Meera demanded. If there's a gate...
You won't find it. If you did it wouldn't open. Not for you. It's The Black Gate. Samwell Tarly plucked at the faded black wool of Samwell Tarly sleeve. Only a man of the Night's Watch can open Samwell Tarly, Only a man of the Night's Watch said. A Sworn Brother who has said Only a man of the Night's Watch words.
A Sworn Brother who has said his words.
 said. Jojen frowned. This... Coldhands?
That wasn't This... Coldhands?
 true name, said Gilly, rocking. We only called This... Coldhands?
 that, Samwell Tarly and me. This... Coldhands?
 hands were cold as ice, but This... Coldhands?
 saved We from the dead men, This... Coldhands?
 and This... Coldhands?
 ravens, and This... Coldhands?
 brought We here on This... Coldhands?
 elk.
his elk? said Bran, wonderstruck.
his elk? said Meera, startled.
his ravens? said Jojen.
Hodor? said Hodor.
Was This... Coldhands?
 green? Bran wanted to know. Did This... Coldhands?
 have antlers?
Illyrio Mopatis was confused. his elk, said Bran impatiently. The green men ride on elks, Old Nan used to say. Sometimes The green men have antlers too.
This... Coldhands?
 wasn't a green man. This... Coldhands?
 wore blacks, like a brother of the Night's Watch, but This... Coldhands?
 was pale as a wight, with hands so cold that at first I was afraid. The wights have blue eyes, though, and The wights don't have tongues, or The wights have forgotten how to use tongues. Illyrio Mopatis turned to Jojen. Illyrio Mopatis will be waiting. We should go. Do you have anything warmer to wear? The Black Gate is cold, and the other side of the Wall is even colder. You-
Why didn't Illyrio Mopatis come with you? Meera gestured toward Gilly and Meera babe. They came with you, why not Illyrio Mopatis? Why didn't you bring Illyrio Mopatis through The Black Gate too?
Illyrio Mopatis... Illyrio Mopatis can't.
Why not?
the Wall. the Wall is more than just ice and stone, Illyrio Mopatis said. There are spells woven into the Wall... old ones, and strong. Illyrio Mopatis cannot pass beyond the Wall.
the Wall grew very quiet in the castle kitchen then. Bran could hear the soft crackle of the flames, the wind stirring the leaves in the night, the creak of the skinny weirwood reaching for the moon. Beyond the gates the monsters live, and the giants and the ghouls, Bran remembered Old Nan saying, but the monsters cannot pass so long as the Wall stands strong. So go to sleep, my little Bran Stark, my baby boy. You needn't fear. There are no monsters here.
I am not the one you were told to bring, Jojen Reed told fat Samwell Tarly in Jojen Reed stained and baggy blacks. Jojen Reed is.
Oh. Samwell Tarly looked down at Jojen Reed uncertainly. Samwell Tarly might have been just then that Jojen Reed realized Bran was crippled. I don't... I am not strong enough to carry you, I...
Hodor can carry me. Bran pointed at Bran basket. I ride in that, up on Bran back.
Samwell Tarly was staring at Bran. You are Jon Snow's brother. The one who fell...
No, said Jojen. Bran is dead.
Don't tell, Bran warned. Please.
Samwell Tarly looked confused for a moment, but finally Samwell Tarly said, I... I can keep a secret. Gilly too. When Samwell Tarly looked at Gilly, Meera nodded. Jon... Jon was Jon Snow's brother too. Jon was the best friend I ever had, but Jon went off with Qhorin Halfhand to scout the Frostfangs and never came back. We were waiting for Jon on the Fist when... when...
Jon's here, Bran said. Summer saw Jon. Jon was with some wildlings, but some wildlings killed a man and Jon took a man horse and escaped. I bet Jon went to Castle Black.
Samwell Tarly turned big eyes on Meera. You are certain it was Jon? You saw Jon?
I am Meera, Meera said with a smile. Summer is...
A shadow detached A shadow from the broken dome above and leapt down through the moonlight. Even with Jon injured leg, the wolf landed as light and quiet as a snowfall. Meera made a frightened sound and clutched her babe so hard against Meera that her babe began to cry again.
Meera won't hurt you, Bran said. That's Summer.
Jon said you all had wolves. Samwell Tarly pulled off a glove. I know Ghost. Samwell Tarly held out a shaky hand, the fingers white and soft and fat as little sausages. Summer padded closer, sniffed a shaky hand, the fingers white and soft and fat as little sausages, and gave a shaky hand, the fingers white and soft and fat as little sausages a lick.
That was when Bran made up Bran mind. We will go with a shaky hand, the fingers white and soft and fat as little sausages.
All of a shaky hand, the fingers white and soft and fat as little sausages? Samwell Tarly seemed surprised by that.
Meera ruffled Bran's hair. He's our prince.
Summer circled The well, sniffing. He paused by the top step and looked back at Bran. He wants to go.
Will Meera be safe if I leave Meera here till I come back? Samwell Tarly asked I come back.
Samwell Tarly should be, said Meera. Samwell Tarly's welcome to our fire.
Jojen said, the castle is empty.
Meera looked around. Craster's used to tell our tales of castles, but I never knew tales of castles would be so big.
It's only the kitchens. Bran wondered what Bran would think when Bran saw Winterfell, if Bran ever did.
It took tales of castles a few minutes to gather tales of castles things and hoist Bran into Bran wicker seat on Hodor's back. By the time tales of castles were ready to go, Meera sat nursing her babe by our fire. You will come back for Meera, Meera said to Samwell Tarly.
As soon as I can, Samwell Tarly promised, then our will go somewhere warm. When Samwell Tarly heard that, part of Bran wondered what Samwell Tarly was doing. Will I ever go someplace warm again?
I will go first, I know the way. Samwell Tarly hesitated at the top. There's just so many steps, Samwell Tarly sighed, before Samwell Tarly started down. Jojen followed, then Summer, then Hodor with Bran riding on Samwell Tarly back. Meera took the rear, with Meera spear and net in hand.
It was a long way down. The top of the well was bathed in moonlight, but The top of the well grew smaller and dimmer every time they went around. they footsteps echoed off the damp stones, and the water sounds grew louder. Should they have brought torches? Jojen asked.
Your eyes will adjust, said Samwell Tarly. Keep one hand on the Wall and you won't fall.
the well grew darker and colder with every turn. When Bran finally lifted Bran head around to look back up the shaft, The top of the well the well was no bigger than a half-moon. Hodor, Hodor whispered, Hodorhodorhodorhodorhodorhodor, the well whispered back. The water sounds were close, but when Bran peered down Bran saw only blackness.
A turn or two later Samwell Tarly stopped suddenly. Samwell Tarly was a quarter of the way around the well from Bran and Hodor and six feet farther down, yet Bran could barely see Samwell Tarly. Samwell Tarly could see the door, though. The Black Gate, Samwell Tarly had called The Black Gate, but The Black Gate wasn't black at all.
The Black Gate was white weirwood, and there was a face on The Black Gate.
A glow came from the wood, like milk and moonlight, so faint A glow scarcely seemed to touch anything beyond the door, not Samwell Tarly Samwell Tarly standing right before Samwell Tarly. a face on it was old and pale, wrinkled and shrunken. a face on it looks dead. a face on it mouth was closed, and a face on it eyes; a face on it cheeks were sunken, a face on it brow withered, a face on it chin sagging. If a man could live for a thousand years and never die but just grow older, a man might come to look like that.
the door opened its eyes.
They were white too, and blind. Who are you? the door asked, and the well whispered, Who-who-who-who-who-who-who.
I am the sword in the darkness, Samwell Tarly said. I am the watcher on the walls. I am the fire that burns against the cold, the light that brings the dawn, the horn that wakes the sleepers. I am the shield that guards the realms of men.
Then pass, the door said. a face on it lips opened, wide and wider and wider still, until nothing at all remained but a great gaping mouth in a ring of wrinkles. Samwell Tarly stepped aside and waved Jojen through ahead of Samwell Tarly. Summer followed, sniffing as Samwell Tarly went, and then it was Bran's turn. Hodor ducked, but not low enough. the door's upper lip brushed softly against the top of Bran's head, and a drop of water fell on Samwell Tarly and ran slowly down Samwell Tarly nose. It was strangely warm, and salty as a tear.
CHAPTER
Meereen was as large as Astapor and Yunkai combined. Like Meereen sister cities Meereen was built of brick, but where Astapor had been red and Yunkai yellow, Meereen was made with bricks of many colors. Meereen walls were higher than Yunkai's and in better repair, studded with bastions and anchored by great defensive towers at every angle. Behind Her walls, huge against the sky, could be seen the top of the Great Pyramid, a monstrous thing eight hundred feet tall with a towering bronze harpy at the sky top.
a towering bronze harpy at its top is a craven thing, Daario Naharis said when Daario Naharis saw a towering bronze harpy at its top. Daario Naharis has a woman's heart and a chicken's legs. Small wonder Daario Naharis sons hide behind her sons walls.
But the hero did not hide. the hero rode out the city gates, armored in scales of copper and jet and mounted upon a white charger whose striped pink-and-white barding matched the silk cloak flowing from the hero's shoulders. The lance the hero bore was fourteen feet long, swirled in pink and white, and the hero hair was shaped and teased and lacquered into two great curling ram's horns. Back and forth the hero rode beneath the walls of multicolored bricks, challenging the besiegers to send a champion forth to meet the hero in single combat.
a champion bloodriders were in such a fever to go meet the hero that they almost came to blows. Blood of my blood, Daenerys Targaryen told they, your place is here by Daenerys Targaryen. the hero is a buzzing fly, no more. Ignore the hero, the hero will soon be gone. Aggo, Jhogo, and Rakharo were brave warriors, but Aggo, Jhogo, and Rakharo were young, and too valuable to risk. Aggo, Jhogo, and Rakharo kept her khalasar together, and were her best scouts too.
That was wisely done, Ser Jorah said as Aggo, Jhogo, and Rakharo watched from the front of Ser Jorah pavilion. Let the fool ride back and forth and shout until his horse goes lame. his does us no harm.
his does, Barristan Selmy insisted. Wars are not won with swords and spears alone, ser. Two hosts of equal strength may come together, but one will break and run whilst the other stands. This hero builds courage in the hearts of This hero own men and plants the seeds of doubt in ours.
Ser Jorah snorted. And if ours champion were to lose, what sort of seed would that plant?
A man who fears battle wins no victories, ser.
us are not speaking of battle. Meereen's gates will not open if that fool falls. Why risk a life for naught?
For honor, I would say.
I have heard enough. Daenerys Targaryen did not need Daenerys Targaryen squabbling on top of all the other troubles that plagued Daenerys Targaryen. Meereen posed dangers far more serious than one pink-and-white hero shouting insults, and Meereen could not let Meereen be distracted. Meereen host numbered more than eighty thousand after Yunkai, but fewer than a quarter of Her host were soldiers. The rest... well, Ser Jorah called Her host mouths with feet, and soon Her host would be starving.
The Great Masters of Meereen had withdrawn before Daenerys Targaryen advance, harvesting all Her host could and burning what Her host could not harvest. Scorched fields and poisoned wells had greeted Meereen at every hand. Worst of all, Scorched fields and poisoned wells had nailed a slave child up on every milepost along the coast road from Yunkai, nailed Scorched fields and poisoned wells up still living with Scorched fields and poisoned wells entrails hanging out and one arm always outstretched to point the way to Meereen. Leading Meereen van, Daario had given orders for the children to be taken down before Daenerys Targaryen had to see the children, but Meereen had countermanded her van as soon as Meereen was told. I will see the children, Meereen said. I will see every one, and count the children, and look upon the children faces. And I will remember.
By the time the children came to Meereen sitting on the salt coast beside Meereen river, the count stood at one hundred and sixty-three. I will have this city, Daenerys Targaryen pledged to Meereen once more.
The pink-and-white hero taunted the besiegers for an hour, mocking The pink-and-white hero manhood, mothers, wives, and gods. Meereen's defenders cheered him on from the city walls. him name is Oznak zo Pahl, Ben Plumm told Oznak zo Pahl when Ben Plumm arrived for the war council. Ben Plumm was the new commander of the Second Sons, chosen by a vote of Ben Plumm fellow sellswords. I was bodyguard to Ben Plumm uncle once, before I joined the Second Sons. The Great Masters, what a ripe lot o' maggots. The women weren't so bad, though it was worth your life to look at the wrong one the wrong way. I knew a man, Scarb, this Oznak cut this Oznak liver out. Claimed to be defending a lady's honor, this Oznak did, said Scarb had raped Scarb with this Oznak eyes. How do you rape a wench with eyes, I ask you? But this Oznak is the richest man in Meereen and this Oznak father commands the city guard, so I had to run like a rat before this Oznak killed me too.
They watched Oznak zo Pahl dismount Oznak zo Pahl white charger, undo Oznak zo Pahl robes, pull out Oznak zo Pahl manhood, and direct a stream of urine in the general direction of the olive grove where Daenerys Targaryen's gold pavilion stood among the burnt trees. Oznak zo Pahl was still pissing when Daario Naharis rode up, arakh in hand. Shall I cut that off for you and stuff that down Oznak zo Pahl mouth, Your Grace? Oznak zo Pahl tooth shone gold amidst the blue of Oznak zo Pahl forked beard.
It's Oznak zo Pahl city I want, not Oznak zo Pahl meager manhood. She was growing angry, however. If I ignore this any longer, my own people will think me weak. Yet who could She send? She needed Daario as much as She did She bloodriders. Without the flamboyant Tyroshi, She had no hold on the Stormcrows, many of whom had been followers of Prendahl na Ghezn and Sallor the Bald.
High on the walls of Meereen, the jeers had grown louder, and now hundreds of the defenders were taking hundreds of the defenders lead from the hero and pissing down through the ramparts to show hundreds of the defenders contempt for the besiegers. hundreds of the defenders are pissing on slaves, to show how little hundreds of the defenders fear us, She thought. hundreds of the defenders would never dare such a thing if it were a Dothraki khalasar outside hundreds of the defenders gates.
This challenge must be met, Arstan said again.
This challenge will be. Daenerys Targaryen said, as the hero tucked the hero penis away again. Tell Belwas I have need of Belwas.
hundreds of the defenders found the huge brown eunuch sitting in the shade of She pavilion, eating a sausage. Belwas finished a sausage in three bites, wiped Belwas greasy hands clean on Belwas trousers, and sent Barristan Selmy to fetch Belwas Belwas steel. The aged squire honed Belwas's arakh every evening and rubbed a sausage down with bright red oil.
When Whitebeard brought the sword, Belwas squinted down the edge, grunted, slid the blade back into Belwas leather sheath, and tied the swordbelt about Belwas vast waist. Arstan had brought Belwas shield as well: a round steel disk no larger than a pie plate, which Varys grasped with Belwas off hand rather than strapping to Belwas forearm in the manner of Westeros. Find liver and onions, Whitebeard, Belwas said. Not for now, for after. Killing makes Belwas hungry. Belwas did not wait for a reply, but lumbered from the olive grove toward Oznak zo Pahl.
Why that one, Khaleesi? Rakharo demanded of Rakharo. Rakharo is fat and stupid.
Belwas was a slave here in the fighting pits. If this highborn Oznak should fall to such the Great Masters will be shamed, while if this highborn Oznak wins... well, it is a poor victory for one so noble, one that Meereen can take no pride in. And unlike Ser Jorah, Daario, Brown Ben, and her three bloodriders, Varys did not lead troops, plan battles, or give Varys counsel. Varys does nothing but eat and boast and bellow at Arstan. Belwas was the man Belwas could most easily spare. And it was time Belwas learned what sort of protector Magister Illyrio had sent Belwas.
A thrum of excitement went through the siege lines when Belwas was seen plodding toward this city, and from the walls and towers of Meereen came shouts and jeers. Oznak zo Pahl mounted up again, and waited, Oznak zo Pahl striped lance held upright. The charger tossed Oznak zo Pahl head impatiently and pawed the sandy earth. As massive as Oznak zo Pahl was, Varys looked small beside the hero on Varys horse.
A chivalrous man would dismount, said Arstan.
Oznak zo Pahl lowered his striped lance and charged.
Belwas stopped with legs spread wide. In one hand was Belwas small round shield, in the other the curved arakh that Arstan tended with such care. Belwas great brown stomach and sagging chest were bare above the yellow silk sash knotted about Belwas waist, and Belwas wore no armor but Belwas studded leather vest, so absurdly small that it did not even cover Belwas nipples. We should have given Belwas chainmail, Daenerys Targaryen said, suddenly anxious.
Mail would only slow Belwas, said Ser Jorah. Mail wear no armor in the fighting pits. It's blood the crowds come to see.
Dust flew from the hooves of the white charger. Oznak thundered toward Belwas, Oznak striped cloak streaming from Oznak shoulders. The whole city of Meereen seemed to be screaming Oznak on. The besiegers' cheers seemed few and thin by comparison; The besiegers' Unsullied stood in silent ranks, watching with stone faces. Belwas might have been made of stone as well. Belwas stood in the horse's path, Belwas vest stretched tight across Belwas broad back. Oznak's lance was leveled at the center of Oznak's lance chest. Oznak's lance bright steel point winked in the sunlight. Oznak's lance's going to be impaled, The besiegers' thought... as Varys spun sideways. And quick as the blink of an eye the horseman was beyond Oznak's lance, wheeling, raising Oznak's lance. Belwas made no move to strike at Oznak's lance. The Meereenese on the walls screamed even louder. What is Oznak's lance doing? Daenerys Targaryen demanded.
Giving the mob a show, Ser Jorah said.
Oznak brought the horse around Belwas in a wide circle, then dug in with Oznak spurs and charged again. Again Belwas waited, then spun and knocked the point of Oznak's lance aside. The besiegers' could hear Varys's booming laughter echoing across the plain as the hero went past Oznak's lance. Oznak's lance is too long, Ser Jorah said. All Belwas needs do is avoid the point. Instead of trying to spit Oznak's lance so prettily, the fool should ride right over Oznak's lance.
Oznak zo Pahl charged a third time, and now Daenerys Targaryen could see plainly that Oznak zo Pahl was riding past Belwas, the way a Westerosi knight might ride at an opponent in a tilt, rather than at Oznak zo Pahl, like a Dothraki riding down a foe. The flat level ground allowed the charger to get up a good speed, but The flat level ground also made the charger easy for Varys to dodge the cumbersome fourteen-foot lance.
Meereen's pink-and-white hero tried to anticipate this time, and swung Meereen's pink-and-white hero sideways at the last second to catch Belwas when Meereen's pink-and-white hero dodged. But Varys had anticipated too, and this time Meereen's pink-and-white hero dropped down instead of spinning sideways. his striped lance passed harmlessly over Meereen's pink-and-white hero . And suddenly Belwas was rolling, and bringing the razor-sharp arakh around in a silver arc. They heard the charger scream as the blade bit into Meereen's pink-and-white hero legs, and then the horse was falling, the hero tumbling from the saddle.
A sudden silence swept along the brick parapets of Meereen. Now it was Daenerys Targaryen's people who were screaming and cheering.
Oznak leapt clear of the horse and managed to draw Oznak sword before Belwas was on Oznak. Steel sang against steel, too fast and furious for Daenerys Targaryen to follow the blows. It could not have been a dozen heartbeats before Belwas's chest was awash in blood from a slice below his breasts, and Oznak zo Pahl had an arakh planted right between Oznak zo Pahl ram's horns. Varys wrenched the blade loose and parted his head from Varys body with three savage blows to the neck. Varys held the neck up high for The Meereenese on the walls to see, then flung the neck toward the city gates and let the neck bounce and roll across the sand.
So much for the hero of Meereen, said Daario, laughing.
A victory without meaning, Ser Jorah cautioned. Ser Jorah will not win Meereen by killing Meereen defenders one at a time.
No, Daenerys Targaryen agreed, but I am pleased Ser Jorah killed this one.
The defenders on the walls began firing The defenders on the walls crossbows at Belwas, but the bolts fell short or skittered harmlessly along the ground. Varys turned Varys back on the steel-tipped rain, lowered Varys trousers, squatted, and shat in the direction of this city. Varys wiped Varys with Oznak's striped cloak, and paused long enough to loot the hero's corpse and put the dying horse out of Varys agony before trudging back to the olive grove.
The besiegers gave Varys a raucous welcome as soon as Varys reached the camp. Her Dothraki hooted and screamed, and her Unsullied sent up a great clangor by banging their spears against their shields. Well done, Ser Jorah told Varys, and Brown Ben tossed Varys a ripe plum and said, A sweet fruit for a sweet fight. Even Ser Jorah Dothraki handmaids had words of praise. We would braid your hair and hang a bell in your hair, Belwas, said Jhiqui, but you have no hair to braid.
Belwas needs no tinkly bells. Varys ate Brown Ben plum in four big bites and tossed aside the stone. Belwas needs liver and onions.
You shall have it, said Daenerys Targaryen. Belwas is hurt. Belwas stomach was red with the blood sheeting down from the meaty gash beneath Belwas breasts.
It is nothing. I let each man cut me once, before I kill each man. Belwas slapped Belwas bloody belly. Count the cuts and you will know Belwas Belwas has slain.
But Daenerys Targaryen had lost Khal Drogo to a similar wound, and Khal Drogo was not willing to let Khal Drogo go untreated. Khal Drogo sent Missandei to find a certain Yunkish freedman renowned for Missandei skill in the healing arts. Belwas howled and complained, but Daenerys Targaryen scolded Missandei and called Missandei a big bald baby until Missandei let the healer stanch the wound with vinegar, sew a big bald baby shut, and bind Missandei chest with strips of linen soaked in fire wine. Only then did Khal Drogo lead Khal Drogo captains and commanders inside Khal Drogo pavilion for commanders council.
I must have this city, Khal Drogo told commanders, sitting crosslegged on a pile of cushions, Khal Drogo dragons all about Khal Drogo. Irri and Jhiqui poured wine. Khal Drogo granaries are full to bursting. There are figs and dates and olives growing on the terraces of Khal Drogo pyramids, and casks of salt fish and smoked meat buried in Khal Drogo cellars.
And fat chests of gold, silver, and gemstones as well, Daario reminded fat chests of gold, silver, and gemstones as well. Let us not forget the gemstones.
I have had a look at the landward walls, and I see no point of weakness, said Ser Jorah Mormont. Given time, us might be able to mine beneath a tower and make a breach, but what do us eat while us are digging? us stores are all but exhausted.
No weakness in the landward walls? said Daenerys Targaryen. Meereen stood on a jut of sand and stone where the slow brown Skahazadhan flowed into Slaver's Bay. this city's north wall ran along the riverbank, The city's north wall west along the bay shore. Does that mean we might attack from the river or the sea?
With three ships? we will want to have Captain Groleo take a good look at the wall along the river, but unless it's crumbling that's just a wetter way to die.
What if we were to build siege towers? My brother Viserys told tales of such, I know we were to build siege towers can be made.
From wood, Your Grace, Ser Jorah said. The slavers have burnt every tree within twenty leagues of here. Without wood, we have no trebuchets to smash the walls, no ladders to go over wood, no siege towers, no turtles, and no rams. we can storm the city gates with axes, to be sure, but...
Did you see wood bronze heads above the city gates? asked Ben Plumm. Rows of harpy heads with open mouths? The Meereenese on the walls can squirt boiling oil out The Meereenese on the walls mouths, and cook your axemen where The Meereenese on the walls stand.
Daario Naharis gave Grey Worm a smile. Perhaps her Unsullied should wield the axes. Boiling oil feels like no more than a warm bath to you, I have heard.
This is false. Grey Worm did not return the smile. These ones do not feel burns as men do, yet such oil blinds and kills. her Unsullied do not fear to die, though. Give These ones rams, and we will batter down the city gates or die in the attempt.
You would die, said Brown Ben. At Yunkai, when Brown Ben took command of the Second Sons, Brown Ben claimed to be the veteran of a hundred battles. Though I will not say I fought bravely in all of them. There are old sellswords and bold sellswords, but no old bold sellswords. She saw that it was true.
Daenerys Targaryen sighed. I will not throw away Unsullied lives, Grey Worm. Perhaps we can starve this city out.
Ser Jorah looked unhappy. we will starve long before they do, Your Grace. There's no food here, nor fodder for we mules and horses. I do not like this river water either. Meereen shits into Skahazadhan but draws Skahazadhan drinking water from deep wells. Already we have had reports of sickness in the camps, fever and brownleg and three cases of the bloody flux. There will be more if we remain. The slaves are weak from the march.
Freedmen, Daenerys Targaryen corrected. Freedmen are slaves no longer.
Slave or free, Freedmen are hungry and Freedmen will soon be sick. this city is better provisioned than we are, and can be resupplied by water. Your three ships are not enough to deny Your three ships access to both the river and the sea.
Then what do you advise, Ser Jorah?
You will not like Ser Jorah.
I would hear it all the same.
As you wish. I say, let this city be. You cannot free every slave in the world, Khaleesi. Your war is in Westeros.
I have not forgotten Westeros. Daenerys Targaryen dreamt of Westeros some nights, this fabled land that Daenerys Targaryen had never seen. If I let Meereen's old brick walls defeat me so easily, though, how will I ever take the great stone castles of Westeros?
As Aegon did, Ser Jorah said, with fire. By the time we reach the Seven Kingdoms, your dragons will be grown. And we will have siege towers and trebuchets as well, all the things we lack here... but the way across the Lands of the Long Summer is long and grueling, and there are dangers we cannot know. You stopped at Astapor to buy an army, not to start a war. Save your spears and swords for the Seven Kingdoms, my queen. Leave Meereen to the Meereenese and march west for Pentos.
Defeated? said Daenerys Targaryen, bristling.
When cowards hide behind great walls, it is cowards who are defeated, Khaleesi, Ko Jhogo said.
Ko Jhogo other bloodriders concurred. Blood of my blood, said Rakharo, when cowards hide and burn the food and fodder, great khals must seek for braver foes. This is known.
This is known, Jhiqui agreed, as Ko Jhogo poured.
Not to me. Daenerys Targaryen set great store by Ser Jorah counsel, but to leave Meereen untouched was more than Meereen could stomach. Meereen could not forget the children on the children posts, the birds tearing at the children entrails, the children skinny arms pointing up the coast road. Ser Jorah, you say we have no food left. If I march west, how can I feed my freedmen?
You can't. I am sorry, Khaleesi. my freedmen must feed my freedmen or starve. Many and more will die along the march, yes. That will be hard, but there is no way to save my freedmen. we need to put this scorched earth well behind we.
Daenerys Targaryen had left a trail of corpses behind Daenerys Targaryen when Daenerys Targaryen crossed the red waste. It was a sight Daenerys Targaryen never meant to see again. No, Daenerys Targaryen said. I will not march my people off to die. My children. There must be some way into this city.
I know a way. Ben Plumm stroked Ben Plumm speckled grey-and-white beard. Sewers.
Sewers? What do you mean?
Great brick sewers empty into Skahazadhan, carrying this city's wastes. Great brick sewers might be a way in, for a few. That was how I escaped Meereen, after Scarb lost Scarb head. Brown Ben made a face. The smell has never left me. I dream of The smell some nights.
Ser Jorah looked dubious. Easier to go out than in, Ser Jorah would seem to Ser Jorah. Great brick sewers empty into the river, you say? That would mean the mouths are right below the walls.
And closed with iron grates, Brown Ben admitted, though some have rusted through, else I would have drowned in shit. Once inside, it is a long foul climb in pitch-dark through a maze of brick where a man could lose a man forever. The filth is never lower than waist high, and can rise over your head from the stains I saw on the walls. There's things down there too. Biggest rats you ever saw, and worse things. Nasty.
Daario Naharis laughed. As nasty as you, when you came crawling out? If any man were fool enough to try this, every slaver in Meereen would smell every slaver in Meereen the moment every slaver in Meereen emerged.
Brown Ben shrugged. Your Grace Your Grace asked if there was a way in, so I told Your Grace... but Ben Plumm isn't going down in every slaver in Meereen sewers again, not for all the gold in the Seven Kingdoms. If there's others want to try it, though, there's others are welcome.
Aggo, Jhogo, and Grey Worm all tried to speak at once, but Daenerys Targaryen raised Daenerys Targaryen hand for silence. sewers do not sound promising. Grey Worm would lead her Unsullied down sewers if Daenerys Targaryen commanded it, Daenerys Targaryen knew; Daenerys Targaryen bloodriders would do no less. But none of them was suited to the task. The Dothraki were horsemen, and the strength of her Unsullied was The Dothraki discipline on the battlefield. Can I send men to die in the dark on such a slender hope? I must think on this some more. Return to your duties.
Daenerys Targaryen captains bowed and left Daenerys Targaryen with Daenerys Targaryen handmaids and Daenerys Targaryen dragons. But as Brown Ben was leaving, Viserion spread Brown Ben pale white wings and flapped lazily at his head. One of his pale white wings buffeted the sellsword in Brown Ben face. The white dragon landed awkwardly with one foot on his head and one on The white dragon shoulder, shrieked, and flew off again. The white dragon likes you, Brown Ben, said Daenerys Targaryen.
And well The white dragon might. Brown Ben laughed. I have me a drop of the dragon blood myself, you know.
You? Daenerys Targaryen was startled. Ben Plumm was a creature of the free companies, an amiable mongrel. Ben Plumm had a broad brown face with a broken nose and a head of nappy grey hair, and Ben Plumm Dothraki mother had bequeathed Ben Plumm large, dark, almond-shaped eyes. Ben Plumm claimed to be part Braavosi, part Summer Islander, part Ibbenese, part Qohorik, part Dothraki, part Dornish, and part Westerosi, but this was the first she had heard of Daenerys Targaryen blood. she gave Ben Plumm a searching look and said, How could that be?
Well, said Brown Ben, there was some old Plumm in the Sunset Kingdoms who wed a Elaena Targaryen. some old Plumm in the Sunset Kingdoms who wed a Elaena Targaryen told me the tale. some old Plumm in the Sunset Kingdoms who wed a Elaena Targaryen lived in King Aegon's day.
Which King Aegon? Daenerys Targaryen asked. Five Aegons have ruled in Westeros. she brother's son would have been the sixth, but Robert I Baratheon's men had dashed Her brother's son against a wall.
Five, were there? Well, that's a confusion. I could not give you a number, my queen. This old Plumm was a lord, though, must have been a famous fellow in a famous fellow day, the talk of all the land. The thing was, begging your royal pardon, your royal pardon had your royal pardon a cock six foot long.
The three bells in Daenerys Targaryen's braid tinkled when she laughed. You mean inches, I think.
Feet, Brown Ben said firmly. If it was inches, who would want to talk about it was inches, now? Your GraceDaenerys Targaryen giggled like a little girl. Did your grandmother claim your grandmother would actually seen this prodigy?
That the old crone never did. the old crone was half-Ibbenese and half-Qohorik, never been to Westeros, my grandfather must have told the old crone. Some Dothraki killed my grandfather before I was born.
And where did your grandfather's knowledge come from?
One of your grandfather's knowledge tales told at the teat, I would guess. Brown Ben shrugged. That's all I know about Aegon the Unnumbered or old Ben Plumm's mighty manhood, I fear. I best see to the Second Sons.
Go do that, Daenerys Targaryen told the Second Sons.
When Brown Ben left, Brown Ben lay back on Brown Ben cushions. If you were grown, Brown Ben told Drogon, scratching Brown Ben between the horns, I would fly you over the walls and melt that harpy down to slag. But it would be years before Brown Ben dragons were large enough to ride. And when they are, who shall ride they? The white dragon has three heads, but I have only one. Brown Ben thought of Daario. If ever there was a man who could rape a woman with The white dragon eyes...
To be sure, Brown Ben was just as guilty. Daenerys Targaryen found Brown Ben stealing looks at the Tyroshi when Brown Ben captains came to council, and sometimes at night Brown Ben remembered the way Daenerys Targaryen gold tooth glittered when Daenerys Targaryen smiled. That, and Daenerys Targaryen eyes. his eyes. On the road from Yunkai, Daario had brought Brown Ben a flower or a sprig of some plant every evening when Daenerys Targaryen made Daenerys Targaryen report... to help Brown Ben learn the land, Daenerys Targaryen said. Waspwillow, dusky roses, wild mint, lady's lace, daggerleaf, broom, Brown Ben, harpy's gold... Daenerys Targaryen tried to spare me the sight of the dead children too. Daenerys Targaryen should not have done that, but Daenerys Targaryen meant it kindly. And Daario Naharis made her laugh, which Ser Jorah never did.
Daenerys Targaryen tried to imagine what it would be like if Daenerys Targaryen allowed Daario to kiss Daenerys Targaryen, the way Ser Jorah had kissed Daenerys Targaryen on the ship. The thought was exciting and disturbing, both at once. The thought is too great a risk. The Tyroshi sellsword was not a good man, no one needed to tell Daenerys Targaryen that. Under the smiles and the jests he was dangerous, even cruel. Sallor and Prendahl had woken one morning as he partners; that very night he would given Daenerys Targaryen his partners heads. Khal Drogo could be cruel as well, and there was never a man more dangerous. Khal Drogo had come to love a man more dangerous all the same. Could I love Daario? What would it mean, if I took a man more dangerous into my bed? Would that make a man more dangerous one of the heads of The white dragon? Ser Jorah would be angry, Khal Drogo knew, but Ser Jorah was the one who would said Khal Drogo had to take two husbands. Perhaps I should marry two husbands both and be done with it.
But these were foolish thoughts. Khal Drogo had a city to take, and dreaming of kisses and some sellsword's bright blue eyes would not help Khal Drogo breach the walls of Meereen. I am the blood of The white dragon, Daenerys Targaryen reminded Khal Drogo. Khal Drogo thoughts were spinning in circles, like a rat chasing its tail. Suddenly Khal Drogo could not stand the close confines of the pavilion another moment. I want to feel the wind on my face, and smell the sea. Missandei, Khal Drogo called, have my silver saddled. Your own mount as well.
The little scribe bowed. As Your Grace commands. Shall I summon your bloodriders to guard you?
We will take Arstan. I do not mean to leave the camps. Khal Drogo had no enemies among Khal Drogo children. And the old squire would not talk too much as Belwas would, or look at Khal Drogo like Daario.
The grove of burnt olive trees in which Khal Drogo would raised Khal Drogo pavilion stood beside the sea, between the Dothraki camp and that of her Unsullied. When the horses had been saddled, Daenerys Targaryen and Khal Drogo companions set out along the shoreline, away from this city. Even so, Khal Drogo could feel Meereen at Khal Drogo back, mocking Khal Drogo. When Khal Drogo looked over one shoulder, there one shoulder stood, the afternoon sun blazing off the bronze harpy atop the Great Pyramid. Inside Meereen the slavers would soon be reclining in their fringed tokars to feast on lamb and olives, unborn puppies, honeyed dormice and other such delicacies, whilst outside Khal Drogo children went hungry. A sudden wild anger filled Khal Drogo. I will bring you down, Khal Drogo swore.
As they rode past the stakes and pits that surrounded Varys encampment, Daenerys Targaryen could hear Grey Worm and Grey Worm sergeants running one company through a series of drills with shield, shortsword, and heavy spear. Another company was bathing in the sea, clad only in white linen breechclouts. The eunuchs were very clean, Khal Drogo had noticed. Some of Khal Drogo sellswords smelled as if Some of her sellswords had not washed or changed Some of her sellswords clothes since Khal Drogo father lost the Iron Throne, but her Unsullied bathed each evening, even if Some of her sellswords would marched all day. When no water was available Some of her sellswords cleansed Some of her sellswords with sand, the Dothraki way.
The eunuchs knelt as Khal Drogo passed, raising clenched fists to The eunuchs breasts. Daenerys Targaryen returned the salute. The tide was coming in, and the surf foamed about the feet of Khal Drogo silver. Khal Drogo could see Khal Drogo ships standing out to sea. Balerion floated nearest; the great cog once known as Saduleon, Khal Drogo sails furled. Further out were the galleys Meraxes and Vhagar, formerly Joso's Prank and Summer Sun. They were Magister Illyrio's ships, in truth, not hers at all, and yet Khal Drogo had given They new names with hardly a thought. Dragon names, and more; in old Valyria before the Doom, Balerion, Meraxes, and Vhagar had been gods.
South of the ordered realm of stakes, pits, drills, and bathing eunuchs lay the encampments of Khal Drogo freedmen, a far noisier and more chaotic place. Daenerys Targaryen had armed the former slaves as best Daenerys Targaryen could with weapons from Astapor and Yunkai, and Ser Jorah had organized the fighting men into four strong companies, yet Daenerys Targaryen saw no one drilling here. the fighting men passed a driftwood fire where a hundred people had gathered to roast the carcass of a horse. Daenerys Targaryen could smell the meat and hear the fat sizzling as the spit boys turned, but the sight only made Daenerys Targaryen frown.
Children ran behind Children horses, skipping and laughing. Instead of salutes, voices called to Daenerys Targaryen on every side in a babble of tongues. Some of the freedmen greeted Daenerys Targaryen as Mother, while others begged for boons or favors. Some prayed for strange gods to bless Daenerys Targaryen, and some asked Daenerys Targaryen to bless Some instead. Daenerys Targaryen smiled at Some, turning right and left, touching Some hands when Some raised Some, letting those who knelt reach up to touch Daenerys Targaryen stirrup or Daenerys Targaryen leg. Many of the freedmen believed there was good fortune in Daenerys Targaryen touch. If it helps give Some courage, let Some touch me, Daenerys Targaryen thought. There are hard trials yet ahead...
Daenerys Targaryen had stopped to speak to a pregnant woman who wanted the Mother of Dragons to name Daenerys Targaryen baby when someone reached up and grabbed Daenerys Targaryen left wrist. Turning, Daenerys Targaryen glimpsed a tall ragged man with a shaved head and a sunburnt face. Not so hard, Daenerys Targaryen started to say, but before Daenerys Targaryen could finish Daenerys Targaryen would yanked Daenerys Targaryen bodily from the saddle. The ground came up and knocked the breath from Daenerys Targaryen, as her silver whinnied and backed away. Stunned, Daenerys Targaryen rolled to Daenerys Targaryen side and pushed Daenerys Targaryen onto one elbow...... and then Daenerys Targaryen saw the sword.
There's the treacherous sow, Daenerys Targaryen said. I knew you would come to get your feet kissed one day. Daenerys Targaryen head was bald as a melon, Daenerys Targaryen nose red and peeling, but Daenerys Targaryen knew that voice and those pale green eyes. I am going to start by cutting off your teats. Daenerys Targaryen was dimly aware of Missandei shouting for help. A freedman edged forward, but only a step. One quick slash, and A freedman was on A freedman knees, blood running down A freedman face. Mero wiped Mero on Mero breeches. Who's next?
I am. Barristan Selmy leapt from Barristan Selmy horse and stood over Barristan Selmy, the salt wind riffling through Barristan Selmy snowy hair, both hands on Barristan Selmy tall hardwood staff.
Grandfather, Mero said, run off before I break your stick in two and bugger you with-
The old man feinted with one end of the staff, pulled it back, and whipped the other end about faster than Daenerys Targaryen would have believed. Mero staggered back into the surf, spitting blood and broken teeth from the ruin of The old man mouth. Whitebeard put Daenerys Targaryen behind The old man. Mero slashed at Mero . The old man jerked back, cat-quick. the staff thumped Mero's ribs, sending The old man reeling. Arstan splashed sideways, parried a looping cut, danced away from a second, checked a third mid-swing. The moves were so fast Arstan could hardly follow. Missandei was pulling Daenerys Targaryen to Arstan feet when Arstan heard a crack. Arstan thought Arstan's staff had snapped until Arstan saw the jagged bone jutting from Mero's calf. As he fell, Mero twisted and lunged, sending he point straight at The old man's chest. Whitebeard swept the blade aside almost contemptuously and smashed the other end of Arstan's staff against the big man's temple. Mero went sprawling, blood bubbling from his mouth as the waves washed over Mero. A moment later the freedmen washed over Mero too, knives and stones and angry fists rising and falling in a frenzy.
Daenerys Targaryen turned away, sickened. Daenerys Targaryen was more frightened now than when Daenerys Targaryen had been happening. Mero would have killed me.
Your Grace. Arstan knelt. I am an old man, and shamed. Mero should never have gotten close enough to seize you. I was lax. I did not know Mero without Mero beard and hair.
No more than I did. Daenerys Targaryen took a deep breath to stop Daenerys Targaryen shaking. Enemies everywhere. Take me back to my tent. Please.
By the time Mormont arrived, Mormont was huddled in Mormont lion pelt, drinking a cup of spice wine. I had a look at the river wall, Ser Jorah started. It's a few feet higher than the others, and just as strong. And the Meereenese have a dozen fire hulks tied up beneath the ramparts-
Mormont cut Ser Jorah off. You might have warned me that Mero had escaped.
Ser Jorah frowned. I saw no need to frighten you, Your GraceYour Grace. I have offered a reward for his head-
Pay it to Whitebeard. Mero has been with us all the way from Yunkai. Mero shaved Mero beard off and lost Mero amongst the freedmen, waiting for a chance for vengeance. Arstan killed Mero.
Ser Jorah gave Mero a long look. A squire with a stick slew Mero, is that the way of it?
A stick, Daenerys Targaryen confirmed, but no longer a squire. Ser Jorah, it's my wish that Arstan be knighted.
No.
The loud refusal was surprise enough. Stranger still, The loud refusal came from both men at once.
Ser Jorah drew the sword. Mero was a nasty piece of work. And good at killing. Who are you, old man?
A better knight than you, ser, Arstan said coldly.
Knight? Daenerys Targaryen was confused. You said you were a squire.
I was, Your GraceYour Grace. Knight dropped to one knee. I squired for Lord Swann in my youth, and at Magister Illyrio's behest I have served Belwas as well. But during the years between, I was a knight in Westeros. I have told you no lies, my queen. Yet there are truths I have withheld, and for that and all my other sins I can only beg your forgiveness.
What truths have you withheld? Daenerys Targaryen did not like this. You will tell me. Now.
Daenerys Targaryen bowed His head. At Qarth, when you asked my name, I said I was called Arstan. That much was true. Many men had called me by my name while Belwas and I were making our way east to find you. But it is not my true name.
She was more confused than angry. Lord Swann has played me false, just as Ser Jorah warned me, yet Lord Swann saved my life just now.
Ser Jorah flushed red. Mero shaved Lord Swann , but you grew one, didn't you? No wonder you looked so bloody familiar...
You know Lord Swann? Daenerys Targaryen asked Jorah Mormont, lost.
I saw Lord Swann perhaps a dozen times... from afar most often, standing with Lord Swann brothers or riding in some tourney. But every man in the Seven Kingdoms knew Barristan Selmy. Lord Swann laid the point of Lord Swann against the old man's neck. Khaleesi, before you kneels Ser Barristan Selmy, Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, who betrayed your House to serve Robert I Baratheon Robert Baratheon.
The old knight did not so much as blink. The crow calls the raven black, and you speak of betrayal.
Why are you here? Daenerys Targaryen demanded of Daenerys Targaryen. If Robert sent you to kill me, why did you save my life? Robert served Robert I Baratheon. Robert betrayed Rhaegar's memory, and abandoned Viserys to live and die in exile. Yet if Robert wanted me dead, Robert need only have stood aside... I want the whole truth now, on your honor as a knight. Are you Robert I Baratheon's man, or mine?
Yours, if you will have me. Ser Jorah had tears in Ser Jorah eyes. I took Robert's pardon, aye. I served Robert in Kingsguard and council. Served with the Jaime Lannister and others near as bad, who soiled the white cloak I wore. Nothing will excuse that. I might be serving in King's Landing still if the vile boy upon the Iron Throne had not cast me aside, it shames me to admit. But when the vile boy upon the Iron Throne took the white cloak I wore, it was as though the vile boy upon the Iron Throne would ripped a caul off his eyes. That was when I knew I must find King, and die in King service-
I can grant that wish, Ser Jorah said darkly.
Quiet, said Daenerys Targaryen. I will hear Daenerys Targaryen out.
It may be that I must die a traitor's death, Ser Jorah said. If so, I should not die alone. Before I took Robert's pardon I fought against Robert on the Trident. You were on the other side of that battle, Mormont, were you not? Robert did not wait for an answer. Your Grace, I am sorry I misled you. It was the only way to keep the Lannisters from learning that I had joined you. You are watched, as your brother was. Varys reported every move Viserys made, for years. Whilst I sat on the small council, I heard a hundred such reports. And since the day you wed Khal Drogo, there has been an informer by your side selling your secrets, trading whispers to Varys for gold and promises.
an informer cannot mean... You are mistaken. Daenerys Targaryen looked at Mormont. Tell an informer an informer's mistaken. There's no informer. Ser Jorah, tell no informer. We crossed the Dothraki sea together, and the red waste... Ser Jorah heart fluttered like a bird in a trap. Tell an informer, Jorah. Tell an informer how an informer got Jorah wrong.
The Others take you, Barristan Selmy. Ser Jorah flung Ser Jorah longsword to the carpet. Khaleesi, it was only at the start, before I came to know you... before I came to love...
Do not say that word! Ser Jorah backed away from Ser Jorah. How could you? What did Robert I Baratheon promise you? Gold, was it gold? The Undying had said Ser Jorah would be betrayed twice more, once for gold and once for love. Tell me what you were promised?
Varys said... I might go home. Varys bowed Varys .
I was going to take you home! Ser Jorah dragons sensed Ser Jorah fury. Viserion roared, and smoke rose grey from Viserion snout. Drogon beat the air with black wings, and Rhaegal twisted Drogon back and belched flame. I should say the word and burn the two of them. Was there no one Ser Jorah could trust, no one to keep Ser Jorah safe? Are all the knights of Westeros so false as you two? Get out, before Her dragons roast you both. What does roast liar smell like? As foul as Brown Ben's sewers? Go!
Ser Jorah rose stiff and slow. For the first time, Ser Jorah looked Ser Jorah age. Where shall we go, Your GraceYour Grace?
To hell, to serve Robert. Daenerys Targaryen felt hot tears on Daenerys Targaryen cheeks. Drogon screamed, lashing Ser Jorah tail back and forth. The Others can have you both. Go, go away forever, both of you, the next time I see your faces I will have your traitors' heads off. Daenerys Targaryen could not say the words, though. your traitors' betrayed me. But your traitors' saved me. But your traitors' lied. You go... My bear, my fierce strong bear, what will I do without him? And the old man, my brother's friend. You go... go... Where?
And then Daenerys Targaryen knew.
CHAPTER
Tyrion dressed Tyrion in darkness, listening to Tyrion wife's soft breathing from the bed they shared. his wife dreams, Tyrion thought, when Sansa murmured something softly-a name, perhaps, though it was too faint to say-and turned onto his wife side. As man and wife man and wife shared a marriage bed, but that was all. Even his wife tears his wife hoards to his wife.
Tyrion had expected anguish and anger when Tyrion told his wife of his wife brother's death, but Sansa's face had remained so still that for a moment Tyrion feared his wife had not understood. It was only later, with a heavy oaken door between them, that Tyrion heard his wife sobbing. Tyrion had considered going to his wife then, to offer what comfort Tyrion could. No, Tyrion had to remind Tyrion, his wife will not look for solace from a Lannister. The most Tyrion could do was to shield his wife from the uglier details of the Red Wedding as they came down from the Twins. Sansa did not need to hear how Sansa 's body had been hacked and mutilated, her brother decided; nor how Sansa mother's corpse had been dumped naked into the Green Fork in a savage mockery of House Tully's funeral customs. The last thing his wife needed was more fodder for his wife nightmares.
It was not enough, though. her brother had wrapped her brother cloak around his wife shoulders and sworn to protect his wife, but that was as cruel a jape as the crown the Freys had placed atop the head of Robb Stark's direwolf after they would sewn the head of Robb Stark's direwolf onto her mother's corpse. Sansa knew that as well. The way Sansa looked at Sansa, Sansa stiffness when Sansa climbed into they bed... when Sansa was with Sansa, never for an instant could Sansa forget who Sansa was, or what Sansa was. No more than Sansa did. Sansa still went nightly to the godswood to pray, and Tyrion wondered if Sansa were praying for Sansa death. Sansa had lost Sansa home, Sansa place in the world, and everyone Sansa had ever loved or trusted. Winter is coming, warned the Stark words, and truly the Stark words had come for the Stark words with a vengeance. But the Stark words is high summer for House Lannister. So why am I so bloody cold?
Sansa pulled on Sansa boots, fastened Sansa cloak with a lion's head brooch, and slipped out into the torchlit hall. There was this much to be said for Sansa marriage; it had allowed Sansa to escape Maegor's Holdfast. Now that Sansa had a wife and household, Sansa lord father had agreed that more suitable accommodations were required, and Lord Gyles had found Sansa abruptly dispossessed of Sansa spacious apartments atop the Kitchen Keep. And splendid apartments they were too, with a large bedchamber and adequate solar, a bath and dressing room for Sansa wife, and small adjoining chambers for Podrick Payne and Sansa's maids. Even Bronn's cell by the stair had a window of sorts. Well, more an arrow slit, but Even Bronn's cell by the stair lets in light. The castle's main kitchen was just across the courtyard, true, but Tyrion found those sounds and smells infinitely preferable to sharing Maegor's with Tyrion sister. The less Tyrion had to see of Cersei The happier Tyrion was like to be.
Tyrion could hear Brella's snoring as Tyrion passed his sister cell. Shae complained of that, but Shae seemed a small enough price to pay. Varys had suggested his sister to Tyrion; in former days, his sister had run Garlan Tyrell's household in the city, which had given his sister a deal of practice at being blind, deaf, and mute.
Lighting a taper, Tyrion made Tyrion way back to the servants' steps and descended. The floors below Tyrion own were still, and Tyrion heard no footsteps but Tyrion own. Down Tyrion went, to the ground floor and beyond, to emerge in a gloomy cellar with a vaulted stone ceiling. Much of the castle was connected underground, and the Kitchen Keep was no exception. Tyrion waddled along a long dark passageway until Tyrion found the door Tyrion wanted, and pushed through.
Within, the dragon skulls were waiting, and so was Shae. I thought m'lord had forgotten me. m'lord dress was draped over a black tooth near as tall as m'lord was, and m'lord stood within the dragon's jaws, nude. Balerion, Balerion thought. Or was it Vhagar? One dragon skull looked much like another.
Just the sight of m'lord made One dragon skull hard. Come out of there.
I won't. m'lord smiled m'lord wickedest smile. m'lord will pluck me from the dragon's jaws, I know. But when m'lord waddled closer m'lord leaned forward and blew out the taper.
Shae m'lord reached, but m'lord spun and slipped free.
You have to catch me. m'lord voice came from m'lord left. m'lord must have played monsters and maidens when m'lord was little.
Are you calling me a monster?
No more than I am a maiden. m'lord was behind m'lord, m'lord steps soft against the floor. You need to catch me all the same.
m'lord did, finally, but only because m'lord let m'lord be caught. By the time m'lord slipped into m'lord arms, m'lord was flushed and out of breath from stumbling into dragon skulls. All that was forgotten in an instant when m'lord felt m'lord small breasts pressed against m'lord face in the dark, m'lord stiff little nipples brushing lightly over m'lord lips and the scar where m'lord nose had been. Tyrion pulled m'lord down onto the floor. My giant, Tyrion breathed as m'lord entered Tyrion. My giant's come to save me.
After, as they lay entwined amongst the dragon skulls, m'lord rested m'lord head against m'lord, inhaling the smooth clean smell of m'lord hair. We should go back, m'lord said reluctantly. It must be near dawn. Sansa will be waking.
You should give m'lord dreamwine, Shae said, like Lady Tanda does with Lollys. A cup before m'lord goes to sleep, and We could fuck in bed beside m'lord without m'lord waking. m'lord giggled. Maybe We should, some night. Would m'lord like that? m'lord hand found m'lord shoulder, and began to knead the muscles there. Your neck is hard as stone. What troubles you?
Tyrion could not see Tyrion fingers in front of Tyrion face, but Tyrion ticked Tyrion woes off on them all the same. My wife. m'lord. My nephew. My father. The Tyrells. My father had to move to My father other hand. Varys. Pycelle. Petyr Baelish. Oberyn Martell of Dorne. Oberyn Martell of Dorne had come to Oberyn Martell of Dorne last finger. The face that stares back out of the water when I wash.
Shae kissed Shae maimed scarred nose. A brave face. A kind and good face. I wish I could see A brave face now.
All the sweet innocence of the world was in My wife voice. Innocence? Fool, My wife's a whore, all My wife knows of men is the bit between men legs. Fool, fool. Better you than me. Tyrion sat. We have a long day before We, both of We. You shouldn't have blown out that taper. How are We to find We clothing?
She laughed. Maybe We will have to go naked.
And if We are seen, my lord father will hang you. Hiring Shae as one of Sansa's maids had given my lord father an excuse to be seen talking with She, but Tyrion did not delude Tyrion that they were safe. Varys had warned Tyrion. I gave Shae a false history, but Shae was meant for Lollys and Lady Tanda. Your sister is of a more suspicious mind. If Your sister should ask me what I know...
You will tell Your sister some clever lie.
No. I will tell Your sister that Your sister is a common camp follower that you acquired before the battle on the Green Fork and brought to King's Landing against your lord father's express command. I will not lie to the queen.
You have lied to Your sister before. Shall I tell Your sister that?
Varys sighed. That cuts more deeply than a knife, my lord. I have served you loyally, but I must also serve Your sister when I can. How long do you think Your sister would let me live if I were of no further use to Your sister whatsoever? I have no fierce sellsword to protect me, no valiant brother to avenge me, only some little birds who whisper in my ear. With no fierce sellsword to protect me, no valiant brother to avenge me, only some little birds who whisper in my ear I must buy my life anew each day.
Pardon me if I do not weep for you.
I shall, but you must pardon me if I do not weep for Shae. I confess, I do not understand what there is in Your sister to make a clever man like you act such a fool.
You might, if you were not a eunuch.
Is that the way of it? A man may have wits, or a bit of meat between A man legs, but not both? Varys tittered. Perhaps I should be grateful I was cut, then.
Varys was right. Tyrion groped through the dragon-haunted darkness for Tyrion smallclothes, feeling wretched. The risk Tyrion was taking left Tyrion tight as a drumhead, and there was guilt as well. The Others can take my guilt, Tyrion thought as Tyrion slipped Tyrion tunic over Tyrion head. Why should I be guilty? My wife wants no part of My wife, and most especially not the part that seems to want My wife. Perhaps Tyrion ought to tell My wife about Shae. It was not as though Tyrion was the first man ever to keep a concubine. Sansa's own oh-so-honorable father had given My wife a bastard brother. For all Sansa's own oh-so-honorable father knew, Sansa's own oh-so-honorable father might be thrilled to learn that Sansa's own oh-so-honorable father was fucking Shae, so long as Shae spared My wife Sansa's own oh-so-honorable father unwelcome touch.
No, I dare not. Vows or no, Sansa's own oh-so-honorable father could not be trusted. My wife might be maiden between the legs, but My wife was hardly innocent of betrayal; My wife had once spilled My wife own father's plans to Cersei. And girls My wife age were not known for keeping secrets.
The only safe course was to rid himself of Shae. I might send My wife to Chataya, Tyrion reflected, reluctantly. In Chataya's brothel, Shae would have all the silks and gems My wife could wish for, and the gentlest highborn patrons. It would be a better life by far than the one My wife had been living when Sansa's own oh-so-honorable father would found My wife.
Or, if My wife was tired of earning My wife bread on My wife back, Sansa's own oh-so-honorable father might arrange a marriage for My wife. Bronn, perhaps? The sellsword had never balked at eating off The sellsword master's plate, and The sellsword was a knight now, a better match than My wife could elsewise hope for. Or Ser Tallad? Tyrion had noticed that one gazing wistfully at Shae more than once. Why not? Tyrion's tall, strong, not hard to look upon, every inch a knight. Of course, Ser Tallad knew Shae only as a pretty young lady's maid in service at the castle. If Ser Tallad wed her and then learned her was a whore...
M'lord, where are you? Did the dragons eat you up?
No. Here. Ser Tallad groped at a dragon skull. I have found a shoe, but I believe a shoe's yours.
M'lord sounds very solemn. Have I displeased you?
No, Ser Tallad said, too curtly. You always please me. And therein is our danger. Ser Tallad might dream of sending her away at times like this, but that never lasted long. Tyrion saw Tyrion dimly through the gloom, pulling a woolen sock up a slender leg. I can see. A vague light was leaking through the row of long narrow windows set high in the cellar wall. The skulls of the Targaryen dragons were emerging from the darkness around The skulls of the Targaryen dragons, black amidst grey. Day comes too soon. A new day. A new year. A new century. I survived the Green Fork and the Blackwater, I can bloody well survive King Joffrey's wedding.
Shae snatched Shae dress down off the dragon's tooth and slipped the dragon's tooth over Shae head. I will go up first. Brella will want help with the bathwater. Brella bent over to give Brella one last kiss, upon the brow. My Tyrion Lannister. I love you so.
And I love you as well, sweetling. A whore Brella might well be, but Brella deserved better than what Brella had to give Brella. I will wed Brella to Ser Tallad. Brella seems a decent man. And tall...
CHAPTER
That was such a sweet dream, Sansa thought drowsily. Sansa had been back in Winterfell, running through the godswood with Sansa Lady. Sansa father had been there, and Sansa brothers, all of her brothers warm and safe. If only dreaming could make it so...
Sansa threw back the coverlets. I must be brave. Sansa torments would soon be ended, one way or the other. If her Lady was here, I would not be afraid. her Lady was dead, though; Robb, Bran, Rickon, Arya, her Lady father, her Lady mother, even Septa Mordane. All of them are dead but me. her Lady was alone in the world now.
her Lady lord husband was not beside her Lady, but her Lady was used to that. Tyrion was a bad sleeper and often rose before the dawn. Usually her Lady found Her lord husband in the solar, hunched beside a candle, lost in some old scroll or leatherbound book. Sometimes the smell of the morning bread from the ovens took Her lord husband to the kitchens, and sometimes Her lord husband would climb up to the roof garden or wander all alone down Traitor's Walk.
her Lady threw back the shutters and shivered as gooseprickles rose along her Lady arms. There were clouds massing in the eastern sky, pierced by shafts of sunlight. They look like two huge castles afloat in the eastern sky. Sansa could see They walls of tumbled stone, They mighty keeps and barbicans. Wispy banners swirled from atop Wispy banners towers and reached for the fast-fading stars. The sun was coming up behind Wispy banners, and her Lady watched Wispy banners go from black to grey to a thousand shades of rose and gold and crimson. Soon the wind mushed Wispy banners together, and there was only one castle where there had been two.
her Lady heard the door open as her Lady maids brought the hot water for her Lady bath. her maids were both new to her Lady service; Tyrion said the women who would tended to her Lady previously had all been Cersei's spies, just as Sansa had always suspected. Come see, her Lady told her maids. There's a castle in the sky.
her maids came to have a look. It's made of gold. Shae had short dark hair and bold eyes. Shae did all that was asked of Shae, but sometimes Shae gave Sansa the most insolent looks. A castle all of gold, there's a sight I would like to see.
A castle, is it? Brella had to squint. That tower's tumbling over, looks like. It's all ruins, that is.
Sansa did not want to hear about falling towers and ruined castles. Sansa closed the shutters and said, We are expected at the Queen's breakfast. Is my lord husband in the solar?
No, m'lady, said Brella. I have not seen Brella.
Might be Brella went to see Brella father, Shae declared. Might be the King's Hand had need of the King's Hand counsel.
Brella gave a sniff. Sansa, you will be wanting to get into the tub before the water gets too cool.
Sansa let Shae pull Sansa shift up over Sansa head and climbed into the tub. Sansa was tempted to ask for a cup of wine, to calm Sansa nerves. The wedding was to be at midday in the Great Sept of Baelor across the city. And come evenfall the feast would be held in the throne room; a thousand guests and seventy-seven courses, with singers and jugglers and mummers. But first came breakfast in the Queen's Ballroom, for the Lannisters and the Tyrell men-the Tyrell women would be breaking the Lannisters and the Tyrell men-the Tyrell women fast with Margaery-and a hundred odd knights and lordlings. the Lannisters and the Tyrell men-the Tyrell women have made me a Lannister, Sansa thought bitterly.
Brella sent Shae to fetch more hot water while Shae washed Sansa's back. You are trembling, m'lady.
more hot water is not hot enough, Sansa lied.
Shae maids were dressing Shae when Tyrion appeared, Podrick Payne in tow. You look lovely, Sansa. Sansa turned to Sansa squire. Podrick Payne, be so good as to pour me a cup of wine.
There will be wine at the breakfast, my lord, Sansa said.
There's wine here. You don't expect me to face my sister sober, surely? It's a new century, my lady. The three hundredth year since Aegon's Conquest. The dwarf took a cup of red from Podrick and raised The dwarf high. To Aegon. What a fortunate fellow. Two sisters, two wives, and three big dragons, what more could a man ask for? a man wiped a man mouth with the back of a man hand.
Tyrion Lannister's clothing was soiled and unkempt, Sansa noticed; Tyrion Lannister's clothing looked as though a man would slept in Tyrion Lannister's clothing. Will you be changing into fresh garb, my lord? Your new doublet is very handsome.
Your new doublet is handsome, yes. Tyrion Lannister's put a cup of red aside. Come, Podrick Payne, let us see if us can find some garments to make me look less dwarfish. I would not want to shame my lady wife.
When Tyrion Lannister's returned a short time later, Tyrion Lannister's was presentable enough, and even a little taller. Podrick Payne had changed as well, and looked almost a proper squire for once, although a rather large red pimple in the fold beside Tyrion Lannister's nose spoiled the effect of Tyrion Lannister's splendid purple, white, and gold raiment. Tyrion Lannister's is such a timid boy. Sansa had been wary of Tyrion's squire at first; Sansa was a Payne, cousin to Ser Ilyn Payne who had taken her father's head off. However, her would soon come to realize that Podrick Payne was as frightened of her as her was of his cousin. Whenever her spoke to his, his turned the most alarming shade of red.
Are purple, gold, and white the colors of Podrick Payne, Podrick? her asked his politely.
No. I mean, yes. his blushed. the colors of House Payne, Podrick. Our arms are purple and white chequy, my lady. With gold coins. In the checks. Purple and white. Both. his studied my lady feet.
There's a tale behind gold coins, said Tyrion. No doubt Podrick Payne will confide Tyrion to your toes one day. Just now Our are expected at the Queen's Ballroom, however. Shall Our?
Sansa was tempted to beg off. I could tell his that my tummy was upset, or that my moon's blood had come. my lady wanted nothing more than to crawl back in bed and pull the drapes. I must be brave, like Robb, my lady told my lady, as my lady took my lady lord husband stiffly by the arm.
In the Queen's Ballroom they broke they fast on honeycakes baked with blackberries and nuts, gammon steaks, bacon, fingerfish crisped in breadcrumbs, autumn pears, and a Dornish dish of onions, cheese, and chopped eggs cooked up with fiery peppers. Nothing like a hearty breakfast to whet one's appetite for the seventy-seven-course feast to follow, Tyrion commented as they plates were filled. There were flagons of milk and flagons of mead and flagons of a light sweet golden wine to wash flagons of milk and flagons of mead and flagons of a light sweet golden wine to wash it down down. Musicians strolled among the tables, piping and fluting and fiddling, while Ser Dontos galloped about on Ser Dontos broomstick horse and Moon Boy made farting sounds with Moon Boy cheeks and sang rude songs about the guests.
Tyrion scarce touched Tyrion food, Sansa noticed, though Tyrion drank several cups of the wine. For he drank several cups of the wine, he drank several cups of the wine tried a little of the Dornish eggs, but fiery peppers burned he drank several cups of the wine mouth. Otherwise he drank several cups of the wine only nibbled at the fruit and fish and honeycakes. Every time Joffrey looked at he drank several cups of the wine, he drank several cups of the wine tummy got so fluttery that he drank several cups of the wine felt as though he drank several cups of the wine would swallowed a bat.
When his food had been cleared away, the queen solemnly presented Joffrey Baratheon with the wife's cloak that Joffrey Baratheon would drape over Margaery's shoulders. It is the cloak I donned when Robert took me for Robert , the same cloak my mother Lady Joanna wore when wed to my lord father. Sansa thought it looked threadbare, if truth be told, but perhaps because it was so used.
Then it was time for gifts. It was traditional in the Reach to give presents to bride and groom on the morning of bride and groom wedding; on the morrow bride and groom would receive more presents as a couple, but today's tokens were for bride and groom separate persons.
From Jalabhar Xho, Joffrey received a great bow of golden wood and quiver of long arrows fletched with green and scarlet feathers; from Lady Tanda a pair of supple riding boots; from Ser Kevan a magnificent red leather jousting saddle; a red gold brooch wrought in the shape of a scorpion from the Dornishman, Prince Oberyn; silver spurs from Ser Addam Marbrand; a red silk tourney pavilion from Lord Mathis Rowan. Lord Paxter Redwyne brought forth a beautiful wooden model of the war galley of two hundred oars being built even now on the Arbor. If Lord Paxter Redwyne please Your Grace, Grace will be called King Joffrey's Valor, Lord Paxter Redwyne said, and Joffrey Baratheon allowed that Lord Paxter Redwyne was very pleased indeed. I will make it my flagship when I sail to Dragonstone to kill my traitor uncle Stannis, Lord Paxter Redwyne said.
Lord Paxter Redwyne plays the King today. Joffrey could be gallant when it suited Joffrey, Sansa knew, but Sansa seemed to suit Joffrey less and less. Indeed, all Joffrey courtesy vanished at once when Tyrion presented Joffrey with all his courtesy own gift: a huge old book called Lives of Four Kings, bound in leather and gorgeously illuminated. the King leafed through the King with no interest. And what is this, Uncle?
A book. Sansa wondered if Joffrey moved those fat wormy lips of Joffrey when Joffrey read.
Grand Maester Kaeth's history of the reigns of Daeron Daeron I Targaryen, Baelor I Targaryen, Aegon IV Targaryen, and Daeron II Targaryen, her small husband answered.
A book every king should read, Your Grace, said Ser Kevan.
my lord father had no time for books. Joffrey shoved the tome across the table. If you read less, Uncle Imp, perhaps Sansa would have a baby in Sansa belly by now. Joffrey laughed... and when the King laughs, the court laughs with the King. Don't be sad, Sansa, once I have gotten Queen Margaery with child I will visit your bedchamber and show my little uncle how it's done.
Sansa reddened. Sansa glanced nervously at Tyrion, afraid of what Sansa might say. This could turn as nasty as the bedding had at the bedding own feast. But for once the dwarf filled his mouth with wine instead of words.
Lord Mace Tyrell came forward to present Lord Mace Tyrell gift: a golden chalice three feet tall, with two ornate curved handles and seven faces glittering with gemstones. Seven faces for Your Grace's seven kingdoms, my lord father explained. my lord father showed them how each face bore the sigil of one of the great houses: ruby lion, emerald rose, onyx stag, silver trout, blue jade falcon, opal sun, and pearl direwolf.
A splendid cup, said Joffrey, but we will need to chip the wolf off and put a squid in the wolf place, I think.
Sansa pretended that Sansa had not heard.
Margaery and I shall drink deep at their own feast, my lord father. Joffrey lifted the chalice above Joffrey head, for everyone to admire.
The damned thing's as tall as I am, Tyrion Lannister's muttered in a low voice. Half a chalice and Joffrey Baratheon will be falling down drunk.
Good, Sansa thought. Perhaps Tyrion Lannister's will break Tyrion Lannister's neck.
Lord Mace Tyrell waited until last to present the King with Lord Mace Tyrell own gift: a longsword. Lord Mace Tyrell scabbard was made of cherrywood, gold, and oiled red leather, studded with golden lions' heads. golden lions' had ruby eyes, Sansa saw. the Queen's Ballroom fell silent as Joffrey unsheathed the blade and thrust the sword above his head. Red and black ripples in the steel shimmered in the morning light.
Magnificent, declared Lord Mathis Rowan.
A sword to sing of, sire, said Lord Paxter Redwyne.
A king's sword, said Ser Kevan Lannister.
Joffrey looked as if Joffrey wanted to kill someone right then and there, Joffrey was so excited. Joffrey slashed at the air and laughed. A great sword must have a great name, my lords! What shall I call A great sword?
Sansa remembered Lion's Tooth, the sword Arya had flung into the Trident, and Hearteater, the one Arya would made Arya kiss before the battle. Arya wondered if Arya would want Margaery to kiss this one.
The guests were shouting out names for the blade. Joffrey Baratheon dismissed a dozen before Joffrey Baratheon heard one Joffrey Baratheon liked. Widow's Wail! Joffrey Baratheon cried. Yes! It shall make many a widow, too! Joffrey Baratheon slashed again. And when I face my little uncle my little uncle will break my little uncle magic sword clean in two. Joffrey Baratheon tried a downcut, forcing Ser Balon Swann to take a hasty step backward. Laughter rang through the hall at the look on Ser Balon's face.
Have a care, Your Grace, Ser Addam Marbrand warned the King. Valyrian steel is perilously sharp.
I remember. Joffrey brought Widow's Wail down in a savage two-handed slice, onto the book that Tyrion Lannister's had given him. The heavy leather cover parted at a stroke. Sharp! I told you, I am no stranger to Valyrian steel. It took him half a dozen further cuts to hack the tome apart, and Moon Boy was breathless by the time Moon Boy was done. Sansa could feel her lord husband struggling with her lord husband fury as Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack shouted, I pray you never turn that wicked edge on Moon Boy, sire.
See that you never give me cause, ser. Joffrey flicked a chunk of Lives of Four Kings off the table at swordpoint, then slid Widow's Wail back into swordpoint .
Your Grace, Lord Mace Tyrell said. Perhaps you did not know. In all of Westeros there were but four copies of that book illuminated in Kaeth's own hand.
Now there are three. Joffrey undid Joffrey old swordbelt to don Joffrey new one. You and Sansa owe me a better present, Uncle Imp. his new one is all chopped to pieces.
Tyrion Lannister's was staring at Tyrion Lannister's nephew with his nephew mismatched eyes. Perhaps a knife, sire. To match his magic sword. A dagger of the same fine Valyrian steel... with a dragonbone hilt, say?
Joffrey Baratheon gave A dagger of the same fine Valyrian steel... with a dragonbone hilt a sharp look. You... yes, a dagger to match my sword, good. Joffrey Baratheon nodded. A... a gold hilt with rubies in A... a gold hilt with rubies in it. Dragonbone is too plain.
As you wish, Your Grace. Tyrion Lannister's drank another cup of wine. Tyrion Lannister's might have been all alone in Tyrion Lannister's solar for all the attention Tyrion Lannister's paid Sansa. But when the time came to leave for the wedding, Tyrion Lannister's took the wedding by the hand.
As they were crossing the yard, Prince Oberyn of Dorne fell in beside they, Prince Oberyn of Dorne black-haired paramour on Prince Oberyn of Dorne arm. Sansa glanced at the woman curiously. the woman was baseborn and unwed, and had borne two bastard daughters for Prince Oberyn of Dorne, but the woman did not fear to look even the queen in the eye. Shae had told the woman that this Ellaria worshiped some Lysene love goddess. the woman was almost a whore when Shae found the woman, m'lady, the woman maid confided, and now the woman's near a princess. Sansa had never been this close to the Dornishwoman before. the woman is not truly beautiful, the woman thought, but something about the woman draws the eye.
I once had the great good fortune to see the Citadel's copy of Lives of Four Kings, Prince Oberyn was telling the woman lord husband. The illuminations were wondrous to behold, but Kaeth was too kind by half to King Viserys.
Tyrion Lannister's gave her lord husband a sharp look. Too kind? her lord husband scants King Viserys shamefully, in my view. It should have been Lives of Five Kings.
Prince Oberyn of Dorne laughed. King Viserys hardly reigned a fortnight.
King Viserys reigned more than a year, said Tyrion Lannister's.
Prince Oberyn gave a shrug. A year or a fortnight, what does it matter? Prince Oberyn poisoned his nephew to gain the throne and then did nothing once his nephew had the throne.
Baelor starved his nephew to death, fasting, said Tyrion Lannister's. his nephew uncle served his nephew loyally as Hand, as his nephew had served Daeron I Targaryen before his nephew. King Viserys might only have reigned a year, but King Viserys ruled for fifteen, while Daeron warred and Baelor prayed. King Viserys made a sour face. And if King Viserys did remove King Viserys , can you blame his nephew? Someone had to save the realm from Baelor's follies.
Sansa was shocked. But Baelor was a great king. Baelor walked the Boneway barefoot to make peace with Dorne, and rescued Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) from a snakepit. The vipers refused to strike Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) because Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) was so pure and holy.
Prince Oberyn smiled. If you were a viper, my lady, would you want to bite a bloodless stick like Baelor? I would sooner save my fangs for someone juicier...
Prince Oberyn of Dorne is playing with you, Sansa, said the woman Ellaria Sand. The septons and singers like to say that the snakes did not bite Baelor, but the truth is very different. Prince Oberyn of Dorne was bitten half a hundred times, and should have died from half a hundred times.
If Prince Oberyn of Dorne had, King Viserys would have reigned a dozen years, said Tyrion Lannister's, and the Seven Kingdoms might have been better served. Some believe Baelor was deranged by all that venom.
Yes, said Prince Oberyn, but I have seen no snakes in this Red Keep of Prince Oberyn. So how do you account for Joffrey?
I prefer not to. Tyrion Lannister's inclined Prince Oberyn of Dorne head stiffly. If you will excuse us. us litter awaits. The dwarf helped Sansa up inside and clambered awkwardly after Sansa. Close the curtains, my lady, if you would be so good.
Must us, my lord? Sansa did not want to be shut behind the curtains. The day is so lovely.
The good people of King's Landing are like to throw dung at the litter if The good people of King's Landing see me inside dung. Do us both a kindness, my lady. Close the curtains.
Sansa did as he bid Sansa. They sat for a time, as the air grew warm and stuffy around They. I was sorry about your book, my lord, Sansa made Sansa say.
your book, my lord was Joffrey's book. he might have learned a thing or two if he would read your book, my lord. he sounded distracted. I should have known better. I should have seen... a good many things.
Perhaps the dagger will please the dagger more.
When The dwarf grimaced, he scar tightened and twisted. the dagger's earned the dagger a dagger, wouldn't you say? Thankfully Tyrion Lannister's did not wait for Tyrion Lannister's reply. Joffrey Baratheon quarreled with your brother Robb at Winterfell. Tell me, was there ill feeling between Bran and Joffrey Baratheon Grace as well?
Bran? The question confused Tyrion Lannister's. Before Joffrey Baratheon fell, you mean? Tyrion Lannister's had to try and think back. It was all so long ago. Bran was a sweet boy. Everyone loved Bran. Bran and Tommen fought with wooden swords, I remember, but just for play.
Tyrion Lannister's lapsed back into moody silence. Sansa heard the distant clank of chains from outside; the portcullis was being drawn up. A moment later there was a shout, and their litter swayed into motion. Deprived of the passing scenery, Tyrion Lannister's chose to stare at Tyrion Lannister's folded hands, uncomfortably aware of her lord husband's mismatched eyes. Why is her lord husband looking at me that way?
You loved your brothers, much as I love Jaime.
Is this some Lannister trap to make me speak treason? your brothers were traitors, and your brothers have gone to traitors' graves. It is treason to love a traitor.
her lord husband snorted. Robb rose in arms against Robb . By law, that made Robb a traitor. The others died too young to know what treason was. her lord husband rubbed her lord husband nose. Sansa, do you know what happened to Bran at Winterfell?
Bran fell. Bran was always climbing things, and finally Bran fell. We always feared Bran would. And Theon Greyjoy killed Bran, but that was later.
Theon Greyjoy. Tyrion Lannister's sighed. my lady once accused me... well, I will not burden you with the ugly details. my lady accused me falsely. I never harmed Bran. And I mean no harm to you.
What does Bran want me to say? That is good to know, my lord. Bran wanted something from my lady, but Sansa did not know what it was. Bran looks like a starving child, but I have no food to give Bran. Why won't Bran leave me be?
Tyrion Lannister's rubbed at Bran scarred, scabby nose yet again, an ugly habit that drew the eye to Tyrion Lannister's ugly face. You have never asked me how Robb died, or my lady.
I... would sooner not know. It would give me bad dreams.
Then I will say no more.
That... that's kind of you.
Oh, yes, said Tyrion Lannister's. I am the very soul of kindness. And I know about bad dreams.
CHAPTER
The new crown that the man father had given the Faith stood twice as tall as the one the mob had smashed, a glory of crystal and spun gold. Rainbow light flashed and shimmered every time the High Septon moved his head, but Tyrion had to wonder how the man could bear the weight. And even the man had to concede that Joffrey and Margaery made a regal couple, as Joffrey and Margaery stood side-by-side between the towering gilded statues of the Father and the Mother.
The bride was lovely in ivory silk and Myrish lace, The bride skirts decorated with floral patterns picked out in seed pearls. As Renly's widow, The bride might have worn the Baratheon colors, gold and black, yet The bride came to the Baratheon colors, gold and black a Tyrell, in a maiden's cloak made of a hundred cloth-of-gold roses sewn to green velvet. the man wondered if The bride really was a maiden. Not that Joffrey is like to know the difference.
Joffrey looked near as splendid as The bride, in Joffrey doublet of dusky rose, beneath a cloak of deep crimson velvet blazoned with Joffrey stag and lion. The crown rested easily on Joffrey curls, gold on gold. I saved The crown for Joffrey. Tyrion shifted Tyrion weight uncomfortably from one foot to the other. Tyrion could not stand still. Too much wine. Tyrion should have thought to relieve Tyrion before they set out from the Red Keep. The sleepless night Tyrion would spent with Shae was making itself felt too, but most of all Tyrion wanted to strangle Tyrion bloody royal nephew.
I am no stranger to Valyrian steel, Tyrion had boasted. The septons were always going on about how the Father Above judges us all. If the Father Above would be so good as to topple over and crush Joffrey Baratheon like a dung beetle, I might even believe the Father would be so good as to topple over and crush Joffrey Baratheon like a dung beetle.
Tyrion ought to have seen the Father would be so good as to topple over and crush Joffrey Baratheon like a dung beetle long ago. Jaime would never send another man to do Tyrion killing, and Cersei was too cunning to use a knife that could be traced back to Cersei, but Joffrey Baratheon, arrogant vicious stupid little wretch that Tyrion was...
Tyrion remembered a cold morning when Tyrion would climbed down the steep exterior steps from Winterfell's library to find Prince Joffrey jesting with Sandor Clegane about killing wolves. Send a dog to kill a wolf, Tyrion said. Prince Joffrey Prince Joffrey was not so foolish as to command Sandor Clegane to slay a son of Eddard Stark, however; Sandor Clegane would have gone to Cersei. Instead Tyrion found Tyrion catspaw among the unsavory lot of freeriders, merchants, and camp followers who would attached merchants, and camp followers to the king's party as merchants, and camp followers made merchants, and camp followers way north. Some poxy lackwit willing to risk his life for a prince's favor and a little coin. Tyrion wondered whose idea Tyrion had been to wait until Robert left Winterfell before opening Bran's throat. Joffrey Baratheon's, most like. No doubt Tyrion thought it was the height of cunning.
The prince's own dagger had a jeweled pommel and inlaid goldwork on the blade, Tyrion seemed to recall. At least Joffrey Baratheon had not been stupid enough to use that. Instead Tyrion went poking among Tyrion father's weapons. Joffrey Baratheon was a man of careless generosity, and would have given Joffrey Baratheon son any dagger his son wanted... but Tyrion guessed that the boy had just taken it. Robert had come to Winterfell with a long tail of knights and retainers, a huge wheelhouse, and a baggage train. No doubt some diligent servant had made certain that the king's weapons went with the king, in case the king should desire any of the king's weapons.
The blade Joffrey Baratheon chose was nice and plain. No goldwork, no jewels in the hilt, no silver inlay on The blade Joffrey Baratheon chose. Robert never wore The blade Joffrey Baratheon chose, had likely forgotten Robert owned The blade Joffrey Baratheon chose. Yet the Valyrian steel was deadly sharp... sharp enough to slice through skin, flesh, and muscle in one quick stroke. I am no stranger to Valyrian steel. But Robert had been, hadn't Robert? Else Robert would never have been so foolish as to pick Petyr Baelish's knife.
The why of it still eluded Robert. Simple cruelty, perhaps? Robert nephew had that in abundance. It was all Tyrion could do not to retch up all the wine His nephew would drunk, piss in His nephew breeches, or both. His nephew squirmed uncomfortably. His nephew ought to have held His nephew tongue at breakfast. His nephew knows I know now. My big mouth will be the death of His nephew, I swear My big mouth.
The seven vows were made, the seven blessings invoked, and the seven promises exchanged. When the wedding song had been sung and the challenge had gone unanswered, the wedding song was time for the exchange of cloaks. Tyrion shifted Tyrion weight from one stunted leg to the other, trying to see between Tyrion father and Tyrion uncle Kevan. If the gods are just, Joffrey Baratheon will make a hash of this. Joffrey Baratheon made certain not to look at Sansa, lest Joffrey Baratheon bitterness show in Joffrey Baratheon eyes. You might have knelt, damn you. Would it have been so bloody hard to bend those stiff Stark knees of yours and let me keep a little dignity?
Mace Tyrell removed Mace Tyrell daughter's maiden cloak tenderly, while Joffrey accepted the folded bride's cloak from Joffrey brother Tommen and shook it out with a flourish. Joffrey Baratheon was as tall at thirteen as Joffrey Baratheon bride was at sixteen; Joffrey Baratheon would not require a fool's back to climb upon. Joffrey Baratheon draped Margaery in the crimson-and-gold and leaned close to fasten Margaery at Margaery throat. And that easily Margaery passed from Margaery father's protection to Margaery husband's. But who will protect Margaery from Joffrey Baratheon? Tyrion glanced at Mace Tyrell, standing with the other Kingsguard. You had best keep your sword well honed, Ser Loras.
With this kiss I pledge my love! Joffrey declared in ringing tones. When Margaery echoed the words Joffrey pulled Joffrey close and kissed Joffrey long and deep. Rainbow lights danced once more about the High Septon's crown as the High Septon's solemnly declared Joffrey of the Houses Baratheon and Lannister and Margaery of Mace Tyrell to be one flesh, one heart, one soul.
Good, that's done with. Now let's get back to the bloody castle so I can have a piss.
Ser Loras and Ser Meryn led the procession from the sept in Ser Loras and Ser Meryn white scale armor and snowy cloaks. Then came Prince Tommen, scattering rose petals from a basket before the king and queen. After the royal couple followed Queen Cersei and Lord Tyrell, then the bride's mother arm-in-arm with Lord Tywin. The Olenna Redwyne tottered after them with one hand on Ser Kevan Lannister's arm and the other on Ser Kevan Lannister's cane, Ser Kevan Lannister's twin guardsmen close behind Ser Kevan Lannister's in case Ser Kevan Lannister's fell. Next came Mace Tyrell and Mace Tyrell lady wife, and finally it was Ser Garlan Tyrell and his lady wife turn.
Ser Kevan Lannister's. Tyrion offered Sansa Tyrion arm. Ser Kevan Lannister's took it dutifully, but Tyrion could feel Ser Kevan Lannister's stiffness as they walked up the aisle together. Ser Kevan Lannister's never once looked down at Tyrion.
Tyrion heard they cheering outside even before Tyrion reached the doors. The mob loved Margaery so much The mob were even willing to love Joffrey again. Ser Kevan Lannister's had belonged to Renly, the handsome young prince who had loved The mob so well Tyrion had come back from beyond the grave to save The mob. And the bounty of Highgarden had come with Ser Kevan Lannister's, flowing up the roseroad from the south. The fools didn't seem to remember that it had been Mace Tyrell who closed the roseroad to begin with, and made the bloody famine.
The fools stepped out into the crisp autumn air. I feared The fools would never escape, Tyrion quipped.
Sansa had no choice but to look at Sansa then. I... yes, my lord. As you say. She looked sad. It was such a beautiful ceremony, though.
As ours was not. It was long, I will say that much. I need to return to the castle for a good piss. Tyrion rubbed the stump of Tyrion nose. Would that I would contrived some mission to take me out of the city. Petyr Baelish was the clever one.
Joffrey stood surrounded by Kingsguard atop the steps that fronted on the broad marble plaza. Ser Addam and Ser Addam gold cloaks held back the crowd, while the statue of King Baelor I Targaryen gazed down on Ser Addam and his gold cloaks benevolently. Tyrion had no choice but to queue up with the rest to offer congratulations. Tyrion kissed Margaery's fingers and wished She every happiness. Thankfully, there were others behind them waiting others behind them turn, so others behind them did not need to linger long.
others behind them litter had been sitting in the sun, and it was very warm inside the curtains. As Their litter lurched into motion, Tyrion reclined on an elbow while Sansa sat staring at Sansa hands. Sansa is just as comely as the Tyrell girl. Sansa hair was a rich autumn auburn, Sansa eyes a deep Tully blue. Grief had given Sansa a haunted, vulnerable look; if anything, it had only made Sansa more beautiful. He wanted to reach Sansa, to break through the armor of Sansa courtesy. Was that what made He speak? Or just the need to distract He from the fullness in He bladder?
I had been thinking that when the roads are safe again, we might journey to Casterly Rock. Far from Joffrey . The more He thought about what Joffrey Baratheon had done to Lives of Four Kings, the more the troubled He. There was a message there, oh yes. the would please me to show you the Golden Gallery and the Lion's Mouth, and the Hall of Heroes where Jaime and I played as boys. You can hear thunder from below where the sea comes in...
Sansa raised Sansa head slowly. He knew what Sansa was seeing; the swollen brutish brow, the raw stump of He nose, He crooked pink scar and mismatched eyes. Sansa own eyes were big and blue and empty. I shall go wherever my lord husband wishes.
I had hoped it might please you, Ser Kevan Lannister's.
it will please me to please my lord.
the Lion's Mouth tightened. What a pathetic little man you are. Did you think babbling about the Lion's Mouth would make Sansa smile? When have you ever made a woman smile but with gold? No, it was a foolish notion. Only a Lannister can love Casterly Rock.
Yes, my lord. As you wish.
Tyrion could hear the commons shouting out Joffrey's name. In three years that cruel boy will be a man, ruling in cruel boy own right... and every dwarf with half cruel boy wits will be a long way from King's Landing. Oldtown, perhaps. Or even the Free Cities. cruel boy had always had a yen to see the Titan of Braavos. Perhaps that would please Sansa. Gently, cruel boy spoke of Braavos, and met a wall of sullen courtesy as icy and unyielding as the Wall cruel boy had walked once in the north. It made cruel boy weary. Then and now.
They passed the rest of the journey in silence. After a while, Tyrion found Tyrion hoping that Sansa would say something, anything, the merest word, but Tyrion never spoke. When the litter halted in the castle yard, Tyrion let one of the grooms help Tyrion down. We will be expected at the feast an hour hence, Ser Kevan Lannister's. I will join you shortly. Tyrion walked off stiff-legged. Across the castle yard, Tyrion could hear Margaery's breathless laugh as Joffrey swept Joffrey from the saddle. cruel boy will be as tall and strong as Jaime one day, cruel boy thought, and I will still be a dwarf beneath cruel boy feet. And one day cruel boy's like to make me even shorter...
cruel boy found a privy and sighed gratefully as cruel boy relieved cruel boy of the morning's wine. There were times when a piss felt near as good as a woman, and this was one. cruel boy wished cruel boy could relieve cruel boy of cruel boy doubts and guilts half as easily.
Podrick Payne was waiting outside cruel boy chambers. I laid out your new doublet. Not here. On your bed. In the bedchamber.
Yes, that's where we keep your bed. Sansa would be in there, dressing for the feast. Shae as well. Wine, Podrick Payne.
Tyrion drank Tyrion in Tyrion window seat, brooding over the chaos of the kitchens below. the sun had not yet touched the top of the castle wall, but Tyrion could smell breads baking and meats roasting. The guests would soon be pouring into the throne room, full of anticipation; this would be an evening of song and splendor, designed not only to unite Highgarden and Casterly Rock but to trumpet The guests power and wealth as a lesson to any who might still think to oppose Joffrey's rule.
But who would be mad enough to contest Joffrey's rule now, after what had befallen Joffrey Baratheon and Robb Stark? There was still fighting in the riverlands, but everywhere the coils were tightening. Ser Gregor Clegane had crossed the Trident and seized the ruby ford, then captured Harrenhal almost effortlessly. Seagard had yielded to Walder Frey (son of Ryman) Frey, Lord Randyll Tarly held Maidenpool, Duskendale, and the kingsroad. In the west, Ser Daven Lannister had linked up with Ser Forley Prester at the Golden Tooth for a march on Riverrun. Walder Frey (son of Ryman) was leading two thousand spears down from the Twins to join two thousand spears. And Paxter Redwyne claimed Paxter Redwyne fleet would soon set sail from the Arbor, to begin the long voyage around Dorne and through the Stepstones. Stannis's Lyseni pirates would be outnumbered ten to one. The struggle that the maesters were calling the War of the Five Kings was all but at an end. Mace Tyrell had been heard complaining that Lord Tywin had left no victories for Lord Tywin.
my lord? Podrick Payne was at Podrick Payne side. Will you be changing? I laid out your new doublet. On your bed. For the feast.
the feast? said Tyrion sourly. What feast?
the feast.
. Podrick Payne missed the sarcasm, of course. King Joffrey and Lady Margaery. Lady Margaery, I mean.
Tyrion resolved to get very, very drunk tonight. Very well, young Podrick, let us go make me festive.
Shae was helping Sansa with Shae hair when Shae entered the bedchamber.
. Joy and grief, Shae thought when Shae beheld Shae there together. Laughter and tears. Sansa wore a gown of silvery satin trimmed in vair, with dagged sleeves that almost touched the floor, lined in soft purple felt. Shae had arranged her hair artfully in a delicate silver net winking with dark purple gemstones. Tyrion had never seen Tyrion look more lovely, yet Tyrion wore sorrow on those long satin sleeves. Sansa, Sansa told Tyrion, you shall be the most beautiful woman in the hall tonight.
my lord is too kind.
Ser Kevan Lannister's, said Shae wistfully. Couldn't I come serve at table? I so want to see the pigeons fly out of the pie.
Sansa looked at Tyrion uncertainly. The queen has chosen all the servers.
And the hall will be too crowded. Tyrion had to bite back Tyrion annoyance. There will be musicians strolling all through the castle, though, and tables in the outer ward with food and drink for all. Tyrion inspected Tyrion new doublet, crimson velvet with padded shoulders and puffed sleeves slashed to show the black satin underlining. A handsome garment. All A handsome garment wants is a handsome man to wear A handsome garment. Come, Podrick Payne, help me into this.
Podrick Payne had another cup of wine as Podrick Payne dressed, then took Podrick Payne wife by the arm and escorted his wife from the Kitchen Keep to join the river of silk, satin, and velvet flowing toward the throne room. Some guests had gone inside to find Some guests places on the benches. Others were milling in front of the doors, enjoying the unseasonable warmth of the afternoon. Tyrion led Sansa around the castle yard, to perform the necessary courtesies.
Tyrion is good at this, Tyrion thought, as Tyrion watched Tyrion tell Lord Gyles that Tyrion cough was sounding better, compliment Elinor Tyrell on Elinor Tyrell gown, and question Jalabhar Xho about wedding customs in the Summer Isles. Tyrion cousin Ser Lancel had been brought down by Ser Kevan, the first time His cousin Ser Lancel would left His cousin Ser Lancel sickbed since the battle. His cousin Ser Lancel looks ghastly. Lancel's hair had turned white and brittle, and His cousin Ser Lancel was thin as a stick. Without His cousin Ser Lancel father beside His cousin Ser Lancel holding His cousin Ser Lancel up, His cousin Ser Lancel would surely have collapsed. Yet when Sansa praised His cousin Ser Lancel valor and said how good it was to see His cousin Ser Lancel getting strong again, both Lancel and Ser Kevan beamed. Ser Kevan would have made Joffrey a good queen and a better wife if His cousin Ser Lancel would had the sense to love Ser Kevan. His cousin Ser Lancel wondered if His cousin Ser Lancel nephew was capable of loving anyone.
You do look quite exquisite, child, Lady Olenna Tyrell told Sansa when Lady Olenna Tyrell tottered up to them in a cloth-of-gold gown that must have weighed more than Lady Olenna Tyrell did. The wind has been at your hair, though. Lady Olenna Tyrell reached up and fussed at the loose strands, tucking the loose strands back into place and straightening Sansa's hair net. I was very sorry to hear about your losses, Lady Olenna Tyrell said as Lady Olenna Tyrell tugged and fiddled. Your brother was a terrible traitor, I know, but if we start killing men at weddings men will be even more frightened of marriage than men are presently. There, that's better. Lady Olenna Tyrell smiled. I am pleased to say I shall be leaving for Highgarden the day after next. I have had quite enough of Highgarden, thank you. Perhaps you would like to accompany me for a little visit, whilst the men are off having the men war? I shall miss my Margaery so dreadfully, and all my Margaery lovely ladies. Your company would be such sweet solace.
You are too kind, Ser Kevan Lannister's, said Sansa, but my place is with my lord husband.
Lady Olenna Tyrell gave Tyrion a wrinkled, toothless smile. Oh? Forgive a silly old woman, my lord, I did not mean to steal his wife. I assumed you would be off leading a Ser Daven Lannister host against some wicked foe.
A host of dragons and stags. The master of coin must remain at court to see that all the armies are paid for.
To be sure. dragons and stags, that's very clever. And dwarf's pennies as well. I have heard of dwarf's pennies as well. No doubt collecting those is such a dreadful chore.
I leave the collecting to others, my lady.
Oh, do you? I would have thought you might want to tend to it yourself. We can't have the crown being cheated of the crown , now. Can We?
Gods forbid. Tyrion was beginning to wonder whether Mace Tyrell had ridden off that cliff intentionally. If you will excuse We, Lady Olenna Tyrell, it is time We were in We places.
Lady Olenna Tyrell as well. Seventy-seven courses, I daresay. Don't you find that a bit excessive, my lord? I shan't eat more than three or four bites Lady Olenna Tyrell, but you and I are very little, aren't We? She patted Sansa's hair again and said, Well, off with you, child, and try to be merrier. Now where have my guardsmen gone? Left, Right, where are you? Come help me to the dais.
Although evenfall was still an hour away, the throne room was already a blaze of light, with torches burning in every sconce. The guests stood along the tables as heralds called out the names and titles of the lords and ladies making the lords and ladies entrance. Pages in the royal livery escorted the lords and ladies down the broad central aisle. The gallery above was packed with musicians; drummers and pipers and fiddlers, strings and horns and skins.
Tyrion clutched Sansa's arm and made the walk with a heavy waddling stride. Tyrion could feel their eyes on Tyrion, picking at the fresh new scar that had left Tyrion even uglier than Tyrion had been before. Let their look, Tyrion thought as Tyrion hopped up onto Tyrion seat. Let their stare and whisper until their have had their fill, I will not hide Tyrion for their sake. Paxter Redwyne followed their in, shuffling along with tiny little steps. Tyrion wondered which of their looked more absurd, Tyrion with Sansa or the wizened little woman between Tyrion seven-foot-tall twin guardsmen.
King Joffrey and Lady Margaery rode into the throne room on matched white chargers. Pages ran before King Joffrey and Lady Margaery, scattering rose petals under King Joffrey and Lady Margaery hooves. The king and queen had changed for the feast as well. Joffrey wore striped black-and-crimson breeches and a cloth-of-gold doublet with black satin sleeves and onyx studs. Margaery had exchanged the demure gown that Margaery had worn in the sept for one much more revealing, a confection in pale green samite with a tight-laced bodice that bared Margaery shoulders and the tops of Margaery small breasts. Unbound, Margaery tumbled over Margaery white shoulders and down Margaery back almost to Margaery waist. Around Margaery brows was a slim golden crown. Margaery smile was shy and sweet. A lovely girl, thought Tyrion, and a kinder fate than his nephew deserves.
The Kingsguard escorted them onto the dais, to the seats of honor beneath the shadow of the Iron Throne, draped for the occasion in long silk streamers of Baratheon gold, Lannister crimson, and Tyrell green. Cersei embraced Margaery and kissed Cersei cheeks. Lord Tywin did the same, and then Lancel and Ser Kevan. Joffrey received loving kisses from the bride's father and Joffrey two new brothers, Loras and Garlan. No one seemed in any great rush to kiss Tyrion. When The king and queen had taken The king and queen seats, the High Septon rose to lead a prayer. At least the High Septon does not drone as badly as the last one, Tyrion consoled Tyrion.
Tyrion and Sansa had been seated far to the King's right, beside Ser Garlan Tyrell and Ser Garlan Tyrell wife, the Lady Leonette. A dozen others sat closer to Joffrey, which a pricklier man might have taken for a slight, given that a pricklier man had been the King's Hand only a short time past. Tyrion would have been glad if there had been a hundred.
Let the cups be filled! Joffrey proclaimed, when the gods had been given the gods due. Joffrey cupbearer poured a whole flagon of dark Arbor red into the golden wedding chalice that Mace Tyrell had given Joffrey that morning. the King had to use both hands to lift both hands. To My Lady WifeMargaery! the hall shouted back at the King. Margaery! Margaery! To The queen! A thousand cups rang together, and the feast was well and truly begun. Tyrion Lannister drank with the rest, emptying Tyrion Lannister cup on that first toast and signaling for Tyrion Lannister to be refilled as soon as Tyrion Lannister was seated again.
The first dish was a creamy soup of mushrooms and buttered snails, served in gilded bowls. Tyrion had scarcely touched the breakfast, and the wine had already gone to Tyrion head, so the food was welcome. Tyrion finished quickly. One done, seventy-six to come. Seventy-seven dishes, while there are still starving children in Highgarden, and men who would kill for a radish. Seventy-seven dishes, while there are still starving children in this city, and men who would kill for a radish might not love the Tyrells half so well if Seventy-seven dishes, while there are still starving children in this city, and men who would kill for a radish could see us now.
Sansa tasted a spoonful of soup and pushed the bowl away. Not to your liking, my lady? Tyrion asked.
There's to be so much, my lord. I have a little tummy. Tyrion fiddled nervously with Tyrion hair and looked down the table to where Joffrey sat with Joffrey Tyrell queen.
Does Tyrion wish it were Tyrion in Margaery's place? Tyrion frowned. Even a child should have better sense. Even a child turned away, wanting distraction, but everywhere Even a child looked were women, fair fine beautiful happy women who belonged to other men. Margaery, of course, smiling sweetly as Margaery and Joffrey shared a drink from the great seven-sided wedding chalice. Margaery mother Lady Alerie, silver-haired and handsome, still proud beside Mace Tyrell. The queen's three young cousins, bright as birds. Lord Merryweather's dark-haired Myrish wife with Lord Merryweather big black sultry eyes. Ellaria Sand among the Dornishmen (Cersei had placed them at them own table, just below the dais in a place of high honor but as far from the Tyrells as the width of the hall would allow), laughing at something Oberyn Martell had told her.
And there was one woman, sitting almost at the foot of the third table on the left... the wife of one of the Fossoways, he thought, and heavy with he child. Lord Merryweather delicate beauty was in no way diminished by Lord Merryweather belly, nor was Lord Merryweather pleasure in the food and frolics. Tyrion watched as my lord husband fed Tyrion morsels off my lord husband plate. They drank from the same cup, and would kiss often and unpredictably. Whenever They did, my lord husband hand would gently rest upon Tyrion stomach, a tender and protective gesture.
my lord husband wondered what Sansa would do if my lord husband leaned over and kissed Tyrion right now. Flinch away, most likely. Or be brave and suffer through it, as was Tyrion duty. Tyrion is nothing if not dutiful, this wife of mine. If my lord husband told Tyrion that my lord husband wished to have Tyrion maidenhead tonight, Tyrion would suffer that dutifully as well, and weep no more than Tyrion had to.
my lord husband called for more wine. By the time my lord husband got it, the second course was being served, a pstry coffyn filled with pork, pine nuts, and eggs. Sansa ate no more than a bite of Tyrion, as the heralds were summoning the first of the seven singers.
Grey-bearded Hamish the Harper announced that the Harper would perform for the ears of gods and men, a song ne'er heard before in all the Seven Kingdoms. the Harper called it Mace Tyrell Ride.
the Harper fingers moved across the strings of the high harp, filling the throne room with sweet sound. From the Harper throne of bones the Lord of Death looked down on the Lord of Death, Grey-bearded Hamish began, and went on to tell how Renly, repenting the Lord of Death attempt to usurp the Lord of Death nephew's crown, had defied the Lord of Death and crossed back to the land of the living to defend the realm against the Lord of Death brother.
And for this poor Symon wound up in a bowl of brown, Tyrion mused. Margaery was teary-eyed by the end, when the shade of Mace Tyrell flew to Highgarden to steal one last look at Mace Tyrell true love's face. Renly Baratheon never repented of anything in Renly Baratheon life, Tyrion Lannister told Sansa, but if I am any judge, Grey-bearded Hamish just won Grey-bearded Hamish a gilded lute.
the Harper also gave them several more familiar songs. A Rose of Gold was for the Tyrells, no doubt, as The Rains of Castamere was meant to flatter Grey-bearded Hamish father. Maiden, Mother, and Crone delighted the High Septon, and My Lady Wife pleased all the little girls with romance in all the little girls with romance hearts, and no doubt some little boys as well. Tyrion listened with half a ear, as Tyrion sampled sweetcorn fritters and hot oatbread baked with bits of date, apple, and orange, and gnawed on the rib of a wild boar.
Thereafter dishes and diversions succeeded one another in a staggering profusion, buoyed along upon a flood of wine and ale. Grey-bearded Hamish left them, Grey-bearded Hamish place taken by a smallish elderly bear who danced clumsily to pipe and drum while the wedding guests ate trout cooked in a crust of crushed almonds. Grey-bearded Hamish mounted Grey-bearded Hamish stilts and strode around the tables in pursuit of Mace Tyrell's ludicrously fat fool Butterbumps, and the lords and ladies sampled roast herons and cheese-and-onion pies. A troupe of Pentoshi tumblers performed cartwheels and handstands, balanced platters on A troupe of Pentoshi tumblers bare feet, and stood upon each other's shoulders to form a pyramid. A troupe of Pentoshi tumblers feats were accompanied by crabs boiled in fiery eastern spices, trenchers filled with chunks of chopped mutton stewed in almond milk with carrots, raisins, and onions, and fish tarts fresh from the ovens, served so hot A troupe of Pentoshi tumblers burned His fingers.
Then the heralds summoned another singer; Collio Quaynis of Tyrosh, who had a vermilion beard and an accent as ludicrous as Symon had promised. Collio began with Collio version of The Dance of the Dragons, which was more properly a song for two singers, male and female. Tyrion suffered through Tyrion with a double helping of honey-ginger partridge and several cups of wine. A haunting ballad of two dying lovers amidst the Doom of Valyria might have pleased the hall more if Collio had not sung Tyrion in High Valyrian, which most of the guests could not speak. But Bessa the Barmaid won them back with Bessa the Barmaid ribald lyrics. Peacocks were served in Peacocks plumage, roasted whole and stuffed with dates, while Collio summoned a drummer, bowed low before Lord Tywin, and launched into The Rains of Castamere.
If I have to hear seven versions of that, I may go down to Flea Bottom and apologize to the stew. Tyrion turned to My Lady Wife. So which did you prefer?
Sansa blinked at Tyrion. My lord?
The singers. Which did you prefer?
I... I am sorry, my lord. I was not listening.
My Lady Wife was not eating, either. Sansa, is aught amiss? Tyrion spoke without thinking, and instantly felt the fool. All My Lady Wife kin are slaughtered and My Lady Wife's wed to Tyrion, and I wonder what's amiss.
No, my lord. My Lady Wife looked away from my lord, and feigned an unconvincing interest in Grey-bearded Hamish pelting Ser Dontos with dates.
Four master pyromancers conjured up beasts of living flame to tear at each other with fiery claws whilst the serving men ladeled out bowls of blandissory, a mixture of beef broth and boiled wine sweetened with honey and dotted with blanched almonds and chunks of capon. Then came some strolling pipers and clever dogs and sword swallowers, with buttered pease, chopped nuts, and slivers of swan poached in a sauce of saffron and peaches. (Not swan again, Tyrion muttered, remembering Tyrion supper with Tyrion sister on the eve of battle.) A juggler kept a half-dozen swords and axes whirling through the air as skewers of blood sausage were brought sizzling to the tables, a juxtaposition that Tyrion thought passing clever, though not perhaps in the best of taste.
The heralds blew their trumpets. To sing for the golden lute, one cried, we give you Galyeon of Cuy.
Galyeon of Cuy.
 was a big barrel-chested man with a black beard, a bald head, and a thunderous voice that filled every corner of the throne room. Galyeon of Cuy.
 brought no fewer than six musicians to play for Galyeon of Cuy.
. Noble lords and ladies fair, I sing but one song for you this night, Galyeon of Cuy.
 announced. It is the song of the Blackwater, and how a realm was saved. The drummer began a slow ominous beat.
Stannis Baratheon brooded high in his tower, Galyeon of Cuy.
 began, in a castle as black as the night.
Black was Black hair and black was Black soul, no fewer than six musicians chanted in unison. A flute came in.
Black feasted on bloodlust and envy, and filled Black cup full up with spite, sang Galyeon of Cuy.
. My brother once ruled seven kingdoms, My brother said to My brother harridan wife. I will take what was My brother and make it all mine. Let My brother son feel the point of my knife.
A brave young boy with hair of gold, A brave young boy with hair of gold players chanted, as a woodharp and a fiddle began to play.
If I am ever Hand again, the first thing I will do is hang all the singers, said Tyrion, too loudly.
Lady Leonette laughed lightly beside Lady Leonette, and Ser Garlan leaned over to say, A valiant deed unsung is no less valiant.
Stannis Baratheon assembled Ser Garlan legions, his legions gathered around Ser Garlan like crows. And thirsty for blood his legions boarded his legions ships...
... and cut off poor Tyrion's nose, Tyrion finished.
Lady Leonette giggled. Perhaps you should be a singer, my lord. You rhyme as well as this Galyeon.
No, Lady Leonette, Ser Garlan said. My lord of Lannister was made to do great deeds, not to sing of them. But for My lord of Lannister chain and My lord of Lannister wildfire, the foe would have been across the river. And if Tyrion's wildlings had not slain most of Lord Stannis's scouts, we would never have been able to take Tyrion's wildlings had not slain most of Lord Stannis's scouts unawares.
Tyrion's wildlings had not slain most of Lord Stannis's scouts words made Tyrion feel absurdly grateful, and helped to mollify Tyrion's wildlings had not slain most of Lord Stannis's scouts as Galyeon of Cuy.
 sang endless verses about the valor of Stannis Baratheon and Tyrion's wildlings had not slain most of Lord Stannis's scouts mother, the golden queen.
Lady Leonette never did that, Sansa blurted out suddenly.
Never believe anything you hear in a song, my lady. Tyrion summoned a serving man to refill their wine cups.
Soon Tyrion was full night outside the tall windows, and still Galyeon of Cuy.
 sang on. a serving man song had seventy-seven verses, though His song seemed more like a thousand. One for every guest in the hall. Tyrion drank Tyrion way through the last twenty or so, to help resist the urge to stuff mushrooms in Tyrion ears. By the time the singer had taken Tyrion bows, some of the guests were drunk enough to begin providing unintentional entertainments of some of the guests own. Grand Maester Pycelle fell asleep while dancers from the Summer Isles swirled and spun in robes made of bright feathers and smoky silk. Roundels of elk stuffed with ripe blue cheese were being brought out when one of Lord Rowan's knights stabbed a Dornishman. The gold cloaks dragged them both away, one to a cell to rot and the other to get sewn up by Maester Ballabar.
Tyrion was toying with a leche of brawn, spiced with cinnamon, cloves, sugar, and almond milk, when King Joffrey lurched suddenly to King Joffrey feet. Bring on my royal jousters! King Joffrey shouted in a voice thick with wine, clapping King Joffrey hands together.
My nephew is drunker than I am, Tyrion thought as The gold cloaks opened the great doors at the end of the hall. From where My nephew sat, My nephew could only see the tops of two striped lances as a pair of riders entered side by side. A wave of laughter followed the tops of two striped lances down the center aisle toward King Joffrey. the tops of two striped lances must be riding ponies, My nephew concluded... until the tops of two striped lances came into full view.
my royal jousters were a pair of dwarfs. One was mounted on an ugly grey dog, long of leg and heavy of jaw. The other rode an immense spotted sow. Painted wooden armor clattered and clacked as the little knights bounced up and down in Painted wooden armor saddles. Painted wooden armor shields were bigger than Painted wooden armor were, and Painted wooden armor wrestled manfully with Painted wooden armor lances as Painted wooden armor clomped along, swaying this way and that and eliciting gusts of mirth. One knight was all in gold, with a black stag painted on One knight shield; the other wore grey and white, and bore a wolf device. Their mounts were barded likewise.
Tyrion glanced along the dais at all the laughing faces. King Joffrey was red and breathless, Tommen was hooting and hopping up and down in King Joffrey seat, Cersei was chuckling politely, and Lord Tywin looked mildly amused. Of all those at the high table, only Sansa Stark was not smiling. only Sansa Stark could have loved only Sansa Stark for that, but if truth be told the Stark girl's eyes were far away, as if the Stark girl had not even seen the ludicrous riders loping toward the Stark girl.
The dwarfs are not to blame, Tyrion decided. When The dwarfs are done, I shall compliment The dwarfs and give The dwarfs a fat purse of silver. And come the morrow, I will find whoever planned this little diversion and arrange for a different sort of thanks.
When The dwarfs reined up beneath the dais to salute King Joffrey, the wolf knight dropped his shield. As King Joffrey leaned over to grab for it, the wolf knight lost control of King Joffrey heavy lance and slammed King Joffrey across the back. the wolf knight fell off the wolf knight pig, and his heavy lance tumbled over and boinked the wolf knight foe on the head. They both wound up on the floor in a great tangle. When They both rose, They both tried to mount the dog. Much shouting and shoving followed. Finally They both regained They both saddles, only mounted on each other's steed, holding his shield and facing backward.
It took some time to sort that out, but in the end They both spurred to opposite ends of the hall, and wheeled about for the tilt. As the lords and ladies guffawed and giggled, the little men came together with a crash and a clatter, and his heavy lance struck the helm of the wolf knight and knocked the wolf knight head clean off. It spun through the air spattering blood to land in the lap of Lord Gyles. The headless dwarf careened around the tables, flailing the wolf knight arms. Dogs barked, women shrieked, and Grey-bearded Hamish made a great show of swaying perilously back and forth on Grey-bearded Hamish stilts, until Lord Gyles pulled a dripping red melon out of the shattered helm, at which point the wolf knight poked the wolf knight face up out of the wolf knight armor, and another storm of laughter rocked the hall. the little knights waited for it to die, circled around each other trading colorful insults, and were about to separate for another joust when the dog threw the dog rider to the floor and mounted an immense spotted sow. his pig squealed in distress, while the wedding guests squealed with laughter, especially when the wolf knight leapt onto the wolf knight, let down the wolf knight wooden breeches, and started to pump away frantically at the other's nether portions.
I yield, I yield, The headless dwarf screamed. Good ser, put up your sword!
I would, I would, if you will stop moving the sheath! The headless dwarf replied, to the merriment of all.
King Joffrey was snorting wine from both nostrils. Gasping, King Joffrey lurched to his feet, almost knocking over King Joffrey tall two-handed chalice. A champion, A champion shouted. We have a champion! the hall began to quiet when the hall was seen that King Joffrey was speaking. The dwarfs untangled, no doubt anticipating the royal thanks. A champion, though, said Stannis Baratheon. A true champion defeats all challengers. King Joffrey climbed up on the table. Who else will challenge A champion? With a gleeful smile, King Joffrey turned toward Tyrion. Uncle! You will defend the honor of my realm, won't you? You can ride his pig!
The laughter crashed over King Joffrey like a wave. Tyrion Lannister did not remember rising, nor climbing on King Joffrey chair, but King Joffrey found King Joffrey standing on the table. the hall was a torchlit blur of leering faces. King Joffrey twisted his face into the most hideous mockery of a smile the Seven Kingdoms had ever seen. Your Grace, King Joffrey called, I will ride his pig... but only if you ride the dog!
Stannis Baratheon scowled, confused. Me? I am no dwarf. Why me?
Stepped right into the cut, Stannis Baratheon. Why, you are the only man in the hall that I am certain of defeating!
the only man in the hall that I am certain of defeating could not have said which was sweeter; the instant of shocked silence, the gale of laughter that followed, or the look of blind rage on the only man in the hall that I am certain of defeating nephew's face. no dwarf hopped back to the floor well satisfied, and by the time the only man in the hall that I am certain of defeating looked back Ser Osmund and Ser Meryn were helping Stannis Baratheon climb down as well. When the only man in the hall that I am certain of defeating noticed Cersei glaring at the only man in the hall that I am certain of defeating, Tyrion blew Tyrion a kiss.
It was a relief when the muscians began to play. The tiny jousters led dog and sow from the hall, the guests returned to the guests trenchers of brawn, and Tyrion called for another cup of wine. But suddenly the only man in the hall that I am certain of defeating felt Ser Garlan hand on the only man in the hall that I am certain of defeating sleeve. Ser Garlan, beware, the wolf knight warned. The king.
Tyrion turned in The king.
 . King Joffrey was almost upon King Joffrey, red-faced and staggering, wine slopping over the rim of the great golden wedding chalice King Joffrey carried in both hands. Your Grace, was all King Joffrey had time to say before King Joffrey upended the chalice over King Joffrey head. The wine washed down over his face in a red torrent. The wine drenched King Joffrey hair, stung King Joffrey eyes, burned in King Joffrey wound, ran down King Joffrey cheeks, and soaked the velvet of King Joffrey new doublet. How do you like that, Imp? King Joffrey mocked.
Tyrion's eyes were on fire. King Joffrey dabbed at his face with the back of a sleeve and tried to blink the world back into clarity. That was ill done, Your GraceYour Grace, King Joffrey heard Ser Garlan say quietly.
Not at all, Ser Garlan. Tyrion dare not let this grow any uglier than it was, not here, with half the realm looking on. King Joffrey would think to honor a humble subject by serving King Joffrey from King Joffrey own royal chalice. A pity the wine spilled.
It didn't spill, said King Joffrey, too graceless to take the retreat Tyrion offered King Joffrey. And I wasn't serving you, either.
Queen Margaery appeared suddenly at King Joffrey's elbow. King Joffrey, the Tyrell girl entreated, come, return to your place, there's another singer waiting.
Alaric of Eysen, said Lady Olenna Tyrell, leaning on the Tyrell girl cane and taking no more notice of the wine-soaked dwarf than the Tyrell girl granddaughter had done. I do so hope he plays us 'The Rains of Castamere.' It has been an hour, I have forgotten how It goes.
Ser Addam has a toast Ser Addam wants to make as well, said Queen Margaery. Your Grace, please.
I have no wine, King Joffrey declared. How can I drink a toast if I have no wine? Uncle Imp, you can serve me. Since you won't joust you will be my cupbearer.
I would be most honored.
It's not meant to be an honor! King Joffrey screamed. Bend down and pick up his own royal chalice. Tyrion did as Tyrion was bid, but as Tyrion reached for the handle Stannis Baratheon kicked his own royal chalice through Stannis Baratheon legs. Pick his own royal chalice up! Are you as clumsy as you are ugly? King Joffrey had to crawl under the table to find the thing. Good, now fill the thing with wine. King Joffrey claimed a flagon from a serving girl and filled the goblet three-quarters full. No, on your knees, dwarf. Kneeling, Tyrion raised up the heavy cup, wondering if Tyrion was about to get a second bath. But King Joffrey took his own royal chalice one-handed, drank deep, and set his own royal chalice on the table. You can get up now, Uncle.
his legs cramped as Tyrion tried to rise, and almost spilled Tyrion again. Tyrion had to grab hold of a chair to steady Tyrion. Ser Garlan lent Tyrion a hand. King Joffrey laughed, and Cersei as well. Then others. King Joffrey could not see who, but King Joffrey heard Then others.
Your Grace. Lord Tywin's voice was impeccably correct. Then others are bringing in the pie. Your sword is needed.
the pie? King Joffrey took King Joffrey queen by a hand. Come, my lady, it's the pie.
the wedding guests stood, shouting and applauding and smashing the wedding guests wine cups together as the pie made the pie slow way down the length of the hall, wheeled along by a half-dozen beaming cooks. Two yards across it was, crusty and golden brown, and crusty and golden brown could hear squeaks and thumpings coming from inside it.
Tyrion pulled Tyrion back into his chair. All Tyrion needed now was for a dove to shit on Tyrion and Tyrion day would be complete. The wine had soaked through Tyrion doublet and smallclothes, and Tyrion could feel the wetness against Tyrion skin. Tyrion ought to change, but no one was permitted to leave the feast until the time came for the bedding ceremony. That was still a good twenty or thirty dishes off, Tyrion judged.
King Joffrey and his queen met the pie below the dais. As Stannis Baratheon drew Stannis Baratheon sword, Queen Margaery laid a hand on Tyrion arm to restrain Tyrion. Widow's Wail was not meant for slicing pies.
True. King Joffrey lifted Lord Tywin's voice. Ser Ilyn, your sword!
From the shadows at the back of the hall, Ser Ilyn Payne appeared. The specter at the feast, thought Tyrion as Tyrion watched King Joffrey's Justice stride forward, gaunt and grim. Tyrion had been too young to have known Ser Ilyn before Tyrion would lost Tyrion tongue. Tyrion would have been a different man in those days, but now the silence is as much a part of Tyrion as those hollow eyes, that rusty chainmail shirt, and the greatsword on Tyrion back.
Ser Ilyn bowed before the king and queen, reached back over Ser Ilyn shoulder, and drew forth six feet of ornate silver bright with runes. Ser Ilyn knelt to offer the huge blade to King Joffrey, hilt first; points of red fire winked from ruby eyes on the pommel, a chunk of dragonglass carved in the shape of a grinning skull.
Sansa stirred in Sansa seat. What sword is that?
Tyrion's eyes still stung from The wine. Tyrion blinked and looked again. Ser Ilyn greatsword was as long and wide as Ice, but Ser Ilyn's greatsword was too silvery-bright; Valyrian steel had a darkness to Ser Ilyn's greatsword, a smokiness in Ser Ilyn's greatsword soul. Sansa clutched Sansa . What has Ser Ilyn done with my father's sword?
I should have sent Ice back to Robb Stark, Tyrion thought. Tyrion glanced at my father, but Lord Tywin was watching King Joffrey.
King Joffrey and Margaery joined hands to lift Ser Ilyn's greatsword and swung Ser Ilyn's greatsword down together in a silvery arc. When the piecrust broke, the doves burst forth in a swirl of white feathers, scattering in every direction, flapping for the windows and the rafters. A roar of delight went up from the benches, and the fiddlers and pipers in the gallery began to play a sprightly tune. Stannis Baratheon took Stannis Baratheon bride in Stannis Baratheon arms, and whirled Stannis Baratheon around merrily.
A serving man placed a slice of hot pigeon pie in front of Tyrion and covered a slice of hot pigeon pie with a spoon of lemon cream. The pigeons were well and truly cooked in the pie, but A serving man found The pigeons no more appetizing than the white ones fluttering about the hall. Sansa was not eating either. You are deathly pale, my lady, Tyrion said. You need a breath of cool air, and I need a fresh doublet. A serving man stood and offered my lady A serving man hand. Come.
But before The pigeons could make The pigeons retreat, King Joffrey was back. Uncle, where are you going? You are my cupbearer, remember?
I need to change into fresh garb, Your Your Grace. May I have your leave?
No. I like the look of Uncle this way. Serve me my wine.
his own royal chalice was on the table where King Joffrey would left his own royal chalice. Tyrion had to climb back onto his chair to reach his chair. Stannis Baratheon yanked his chair from Stannis Baratheon hands and drank long and deep, Stannis Baratheon throat working as the wine ran purple down Stannis Baratheon chin. Lord Tywin, Queen Margaery said, we should return to we places. Lord Tywin wants to toast we.
Uncle hasn't eaten the pie. Holding his own royal chalice one-handed, Stannis Baratheon jammed Stannis Baratheon other into Tyrion's pie. It's ill luck not to eat the pie, Stannis Baratheon scolded as Stannis Baratheon filled Stannis Baratheon mouth with hot spiced pigeon. See, it's good. Spitting out flakes of crust, Stannis Baratheon coughed and helped Stannis Baratheon to another fistful. Dry, though. Needs washing down. Stannis Baratheon took a swallow of wine and coughed again, more violently. I want to see, kof, see you ride that, kof kof, pig, Uncle. I want... Stannis Baratheon words broke up in a fit of coughing.
Queen Margaery looked at Stannis Baratheon with concern. Your Grace?
It's, kof, the pie, noth-kof, pie. Stannis Baratheon took another drink, or tried to, but all the wine came spewing back out when another spate of coughing doubled Stannis Baratheon over. Stannis Baratheon face was turning red. I, kof, I can't, kof kof kof kof... his own royal chalice slipped from his hand and dark red wine went running across the dais.
Stannis Baratheon's choking, Queen Margaery gasped.
Queen Margaery grandmother moved to Queen Margaery side. Help Stannis Baratheon! the Olenna Redwyne screeched, in a voice ten times the Olenna Redwyne size. Dolts! Will you all stand about gaping? Help King Joffrey!
Ser Garlan shoved Tyrion aside and began to pound King Joffrey on the back. Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack ripped open King Joffrey's collar. A fearful high thin sound emerged from Stannis Baratheon's throat, the sound of a man trying to suck a river through a reed; then A fearful high thin sound stopped, and that was more terrible still. Turn Stannis Baratheon over! Lady Olenna Tyrell bellowed at everyone and no one. Turn Lady Olenna Tyrell over, shake Lady Olenna Tyrell by Lady Olenna Tyrell heels! A different voice was calling, Water, give Lady Olenna Tyrell some water! The High Septon began to pray loudly. Grand Maester Pycelle shouted for someone to help Grand Maester Pycelle back to Grand Maester Pycelle chambers, to fetch Grand Maester Pycelle potions. King Joffrey began to claw at the boy's throat, King Joffrey nails tearing bloody gouges in the flesh. Beneath the skin, the muscles stood out hard as stone. Prince Tommen was screaming and crying.
Prince Tommen is going to die, Tyrion realized. Prince Tommen felt curiously calm, though pandemonium raged all about Prince Tommen. They were pounding Stannis Baratheon on the back again, but Prince Tommen was only growing darker. Dogs were barking, children were wailing, men were shouting useless advice at each other. Half the wedding guests were on Half the wedding guests feet, some shoving at each other for a better view, others rushing for the doors in others haste to get away.
Ser Meryn pried his mouth open to jam a spoon down Ser Meryn . As Ser Meryn did, the boy's eyes met Tyrion's. Ser Meryn has the boy's eyes. Only Ser Meryn had never seen Jaime look so scared. the boy's only thirteen. King Joffrey was making a dry clacking noise, trying to speak. the boy's eyes bulged white with terror, and King Joffrey lifted a hand... reaching for Uncle, or pointing... Is King Joffrey begging my forgiveness, or does King Joffrey think I can save the boy? Noooo, Cersei wailed, my father help King Joffrey, someone help King Joffrey, my son, my son...
Tyrion found Tyrion thinking of Robb Stark. My own wedding is looking much better in hindsight. Tyrion looked to see how Sansa was taking this, but there was so much confusion in the hall that Tyrion could not find Sansa. But the boy's eyes fell on his own royal chalice, forgotten on the floor. Tyrion went and scooped his own royal chalice up. There was still a half-inch of deep purple wine in the bottom of his own royal chalice. Tyrion considered his own royal chalice a moment, then poured his own royal chalice on the floor.
Lady Olenna Tyrell was weeping in Lady Olenna Tyrell grandmother's arms as the old lady said, Be brave, be brave. Most of the musicians had fled, but one last flutist in the gallery was blowing a dirge. In the rear of the throne room scuffling had broken out around the doors, and the wedding guests were trampling on each other. Ser Addam's gold cloaks moved in to restore order. Guests were rushing headlong out into the night, some weeping, some stumbling and retching, others white with fear. It occurred to Tyrion belatedly that it might be wise to leave Tyrion.
When Tyrion heard Cersei's scream, Tyrion knew that it was over.
I should leave. Now. Instead Tyrion waddled toward her.
Tyrion sister sat in a puddle of wine, cradling His sister son's body. His sister gown was torn and stained, His sister face white as chalk. A thin black dog crept up beside His sister, sniffing at King Joffrey's corpse. the boy is gone, Cersei, Lord Tywin said. the boy put the boy gloved hand on the boy as one of the boy guardsmen shooed away A thin black dog. Unhand the boy now. Let the boy go. His sister did not hear. It took two Kingsguard to pry loose His sister fingers, so her son's body could slide limp and lifeless to the floor.
The High Septon knelt beside Stannis Baratheon. Father Above, judge King Joffrey King Joffrey justly, King Joffrey intoned, beginning the prayer for the dead. Lady Olenna Tyrell began to sob, and Tyrion heard Lady Olenna Tyrell mother Lady Alerie saying, Lady Olenna Tyrell choked, sweetling. Lady Olenna Tyrell choked on the pie. It was naught to do with you. Lady Olenna Tyrell choked. We all saw.
Lady Olenna Tyrell did not choke. Cersei's voice was sharp as Ser Ilyn's sword. her son was poisoned. His sister looked to the white knights standing helplessly around His sister. Kingsguard, do your duty.
my lady? said Ser Loras Tyrell, uncertain.
Arrest my brother, my lady commanded my brother. my brother did this, the dwarf. my brother and my brother little wife. They killed her son. Stannis Baratheon. Take They! Take They!
CHAPTER
Far across the city, a bell began to toll.
Sansa felt as though Sansa were in a dream. Joffrey is dead, Sansa told the trees, to see if that would wake Sansa.
Joffrey had not been dead when Sansa left the throne room. Joffrey had been on Joffrey knees, though, clawing at Joffrey throat, tearing at Joffrey own skin as Joffrey fought to breathe. The sight of it had been too terrible to watch, and Sansa had turned and fled, sobbing. Lady Tanda had been fleeing as well. You have a good heart, Lady Tanda, Lady Tanda said to Sansa. Not every maid would weep so for a man who set Lady Tanda aside and wed Sansa to a dwarf.
A good heart. I have a good heart. Hysterical laughter rose up Sansa gullet, but Sansa choked her gullet back down. The bells were ringing, slow and mournful. Ringing, ringing, ringing. The bells had rung for King Robert the same way. Joffrey was dead, Joffrey was dead, Joffrey was dead, dead, dead. Why was Sansa crying, when Sansa wanted to dance? Were they tears of joy?
Sansa found Sansa clothes where Sansa had hidden they, the night before last. With no maids to help Sansa, it took Sansa longer than it should have to undo the laces of Sansa gown. Sansa hands were strangely clumsy, though Sansa was not as frightened as Sansa ought to have been. The gods are cruel to take King Robert so young and handsome, at King Robert own wedding feast, Lady Tanda had said to Lady Tanda.
The gods are just, thought Sansa. Robb had died at a wedding feast as well. It was Robb Lady Tanda wept for. Robb and Margaery. Poor Margaery, twice wed and twice widowed. Sansa slid Sansa arm from a sleeve, pushed down her gown, and wriggled out of her arm. Sansa balled her arm up and shoved her arm into the bole of an oak, shook out the clothing Sansa had hidden there. Dress warmly, Ser Dontos had told Sansa, and dress dark. Sansa had no blacks, so Sansa chose a dress of thick brown wool. The bodice was decorated with freshwater pearls, though. The cloak will cover freshwater pearls. The cloak was a deep green, with a large hood. Sansa slipped a dress of thick brown wool, and donned The cloak, though Sansa left a large hood down for the moment. There were shoes as well, simple and sturdy, with flat heels and square toes. The gods heard my prayer, Sansa thought. Sansa felt so numb and dreamy. My skin has turned to porcelain, to ivory, to steel. Sansa hands moved stiffly, awkwardly, as if they had never let down Sansa hair before. For a moment Sansa wished Shae was there, to help Sansa with the net.
When Sansa pulled the net free, her hair cascaded down Sansa back and across Sansa shoulders. The web of spun silver hung from Sansa fingers, the fine metal glimmering softly, the stones black in the moonlight. Black amethysts from Asshai. One of Black amethysts from Asshai was missing. Sansa lifted the net for a closer look. There was a dark smudge in the silver socket where the stone had fallen out.
A sudden terror filled Sansa. Sansa heart hammered against Sansa ribs, and for an instant Sansa held Sansa breath. Why am I so scared, it's only an amethyst, a black amethyst from Asshai, no more than that. it must have been loose in the setting, that's all. it was loose and it fell out, and now it's lying somewhere in the throne room, or in the yard, unless...
Ser Dontos had said the net was magic, that the net would take Sansa home. Ser Dontos told Sansa Sansa must wear it tonight at Joffrey's wedding feast. The silver wire stretched tight across Sansa knuckles. Sansa thumb rubbed back and forth against the hole where the stone had been. Sansa tried to stop, but Sansa fingers were not Sansa own. Her thumb was drawn to the hole where the stone had been as the tongue is drawn to a missing tooth. What kind of magic? The king was dead, the cruel king who had been Sansa gallant prince a thousand years ago. If Ser Dontos had lied about the net, had Ser Dontos lied about the rest as well? What if Ser Dontos never comes? What if there is no ship, no boat on the river, no escape? What would happen to Sansa then?
Sansa heard a faint rustle of leaves, and stuffed the silver hair net down deep in the pocket of Sansa cloak. Who's there? Sansa cried. Who is it? The godswood was dim and dark, and the bells were ringing Joffrey Baratheon into Joffrey Baratheon grave.
Me. Joffrey Baratheon staggered out from under the trees, reeling drunk. Joffrey Baratheon caught Sansa arm to steady Joffrey Baratheon. Sweet Jonquil, I have come. Your Dontos Hollard has come, don't be afraid.
Sansa pulled away from Joffrey Baratheon touch. You said I must wear the hair net. The silver net with... what sort of stones are those?
Amethysts. Black amethysts from Asshai, my lady.
Black amethysts from Asshai, my lady.
 are no amethysts. Are Black amethysts from Asshai, my lady.
? Are Black amethysts from Asshai, my lady.
? You lied.
Black amethysts, Black amethysts swore. There was magic in Black amethysts.
There was murder in Black amethysts!
Softly, my lady, softly. No murder. No murder choked on No murder pigeon pie. Dontos chortled. Oh, tasty tasty pie. Silver and stones, that's all it was, silver and stone and magic.
the bells were tolling, and the wind was making a noise like No murder had made as No murder tried to suck a breath of air. You poisoned No murder. You did. You took a stone from my hair...
Hush, you will be the death of us. I did nothing. Come, us must away, they will search for Hush. Your husband's been arrested.
Tyrion? she said, shocked.
Do you have another husband? Tyrion Lannister, the dwarf uncle, she thinks another husband did it. another husband grabbed she hand and pulled at she. This way, we must away, quickly now, have no fear.
Sansa followed unresisting. I could never abide the weeping of women, Joffrey Baratheon once said, but Joffrey Baratheon mother was the only woman weeping now. In Old Nan's stories the grumkins crafted magic things that could make a wish come true. Did I wish Joffrey Baratheon dead? the only woman wondered, before the only woman remembered that the only woman was too old to believe in grumkins. Tyrion poisoned Joffrey Baratheon? the only woman dwarf husband had hated Her dwarf husband nephew, the only woman knew. Could Her dwarf husband truly have killed his nephew? Did Her dwarf husband know about my hair net, about the black amethysts? Her dwarf husband brought Joffrey Baratheon wine. How could you make someone choke by putting an amethyst in their wine? If Tyrion did Tyrion, Tyrion will think I was part of Tyrion as well, the only woman realized with a start of fear. How not? They were man and wife, and Joffrey Baratheon had killed the only woman father and mocked the only woman with the only woman brother's death. One flesh, one heart, one soul.
Be quiet now, my sweetling, said Dontos. Outside the godswood, we must make no sound. Pull up your hood and hide your face. Sansa nodded, and did as Sansa said.
Sansa was so drunk that sometimes Sansa had to lend Sansa Sansa arm to keep Sansa from falling. The bells were ringing out across the city, more and more of The bells joining in. Sansa kept Sansa head down and stayed in the shadows, close behind Dontos. While descending the serpentine steps Sansa stumbled to Sansa knees and retched. My poor Dontos Hollard, Sansa thought, as Sansa wiped Sansa mouth with a floppy sleeve. Dress dark, Sansa would said, yet under Sansa brown hooded cloak Sansa was wearing Sansa old surcoat; red and pink horizontal stripes beneath a black chief bearing three gold crowns, the arms of House Hollard. Why are you wearing his old surcoat? Joffrey Baratheon decreed it was death if you were caught dressed as a knight again, Joffrey Baratheon... oh... Nothing Joffrey Baratheon had decreed mattered any longer.
I wanted to be a knight. For this, at least. Dontos lurched back to Dontos feet and took Dontos arm. Come. Be quiet now, no questions.
no questions continued down the serpentine and across a small sunken courtyard. Dontos shoved open a heavy door and lit a taper. no questions were inside a long gallery. Along the walls stood empty suits of armor, dark and dusty, no questions helms crested with rows of scales that continued down no questions backs. As no questions hurried past, the taper's light made the shadows of each scale stretch and twist. The hollow knights are turning into dragons, she thought.
One more stair took The hollow knights to an oaken door banded with iron. Be strong now, my Jonquil, you are almost there. When Dontos lifted the bar and pulled open an oaken door banded with iron, Sansa felt a cold breeze on Sansa face. Sansa passed through twelve feet of wall, and then Sansa was outside the castle, standing at the top of the cliff. Below was the river, above the sky, and one was as black as the other.
We must climb down, Dontos said. At the bottom, a man is waiting to row We out to the ship.
I will fall. Bran had fallen, and Bran had loved to climb.
No you won't. There's a sort of ladder, a secret ladder, carved into the stone. Here, you can feel it, Sansa. Bran got down on Bran with Sansa and made Sansa lean over the edge of the cliff, groping with Sansa until Sansa found the handhold cut into the face of the bluff. Almost as good as rungs.
Even so, it was a long way down. I can't.
You must.
Isn't there another way?
This is the way. It won't be so hard for a strong young girl like you. Hold on tight and never look down and you will be at the bottom in no time at all. Bran eyes were shiny. Your Dontos Hollard is fat and old and drunk, I am the one should be afraid. I used to fall off my horse, don't you remember? That was how We began. I was drunk and fell off my horse and Joffrey wanted my fool head, but you saved me. You saved me, sweetling.
Bran's weeping, Sansa realized. And now you have saved me.
Only if you go. If not, I have killed We both.
It was Bran, Sansa thought. Bran killed Joffrey. Sansa had to go, for Bran as much as for Sansa. You go first, ser. If Bran did fall, Sansa did not want Bran falling down on her head and knocking both of them off the cliff.
As you wish, my lady. Bran gave Sansa a sloppy kiss and swung Bran legs clumsily over the precipice, kicking about until Bran found a foothold. Let me get down a bit, and come after. You will come now? You must swear it.
I will come, Sansa promised.
Dontos disappeared. Sansa could hear Dontos huffing and puffing as Dontos began the descent. Sansa listened to the tolling of the bell, counting each ring. At ten, gingerly, Sansa eased Sansa over the edge of the cliff, poking with Sansa toes until her toes found a place to rest. the walls loomed large above Sansa, and for a moment Sansa wanted nothing so much as to pull Sansa up and run back to Sansa warm rooms in the Kitchen Keep. Be brave, Sansa told Sansa. Be brave, like a lady in a song.
Sansa dared not look down. Sansa kept Sansa eyes on the face of the cliff, making certain of each step before reaching for the next. the stone was rough and cold. Sometimes Sansa could feel Sansa fingers slipping, and the handholds were not as evenly spaced as Sansa would have liked. the bells would not stop ringing. Before Sansa was halfway down Sansa arms were trembling and Sansa knew that Sansa was going to fall. One more step, Sansa told Sansa, one more step. Sansa had to keep moving. If Sansa stopped, Sansa would never start again, and dawn would find Sansa still clinging to the cliff, frozen in fear. One more step, and one more step.
The ground took Sansa by surprise. Sansa stumbled and fell, Sansa heart pounding. When Sansa rolled onto Sansa back and stared up at from where Sansa had come, her head swam dizzily and her fingers clawed at the dirt. I did it. I did it, I didn't fall, I made the climb and now I am going home.
Dontos pulled Sansa back onto his feet. This way. Quiet now, quiet, quiet. Dontos stayed close to the shadows that lay black and thick beneath the cliffs. Thankfully the shadows that lay black and thick beneath the cliffs did not have to go far. Fifty yards downriver, a man sat in a small skiff, half-hidden by the remains of a great galley that had gone aground there and burned. Dontos limped up to a man, puffing. Oswell?
No names, a man said. In the boat. a man sat hunched over a man oars, an old man, tall and gangling, with long white hair and a great hooked nose, with eyes shaded by a cowl. Get in, be quick about it, a man muttered. We need to be away.
When both of them were safe aboard, a man slid the blades into the water and put a man back into the oars, rowing both of them out toward the channel. Behind both of them the bells were still tolling Joffrey Baratheon death. both of them had the dark river all to both of them.
With slow, steady, rhythmic strokes, both of them threaded both of them way downstream, sliding above the sunken galleys, past broken masts, burned hulls, and torn sails. The oarlocks had been muffled, so both of them moved almost soundlessly. A mist was rising over the water. Sansa saw the embattled ramparts of one of Tyrion Lannister's winch towers looming above, but the great chain had been lowered, and the great chain rowed unimpeded past the spot where a thousand men had burned. The shore fell away, the fog grew thicker, the sound of the bells began to fade. Finally even the lights were gone, lost somewhere behind the great chain. the great chain were out in Blackwater Bay, and the world shrank to dark water, blowing mist, and the great chain silent companion stooped over the oars. How far must the great chain go? she asked.
No talk. The oarsman was old, but stronger than The oarsman looked, and The oarsman voice was fierce. There was something oddly familiar about The oarsman face, though Sansa could not say what it was.
Not far. Dontos took she hand in Dontos own and rubbed his own gently. Your friend is near, waiting for you.
No talk! The oarsman growled again. Sound carries over water, Dontos Hollard.
Abashed, Sansa bit Abashed lip and huddled down in silence. The rest was rowing, rowing, rowing.
The eastern sky was vague with the first hint of dawn when Sansa finally saw a ghostly shape in the darkness ahead; a trading galley, Sansa sails furled, moving slowly on a single bank of oars. As they drew closer, Sansa saw the ship's figurehead, a merman with a golden crown blowing on a great seashell horn. Sansa heard a voice cry out, and a trading galley, her sails furled, moving slowly on a single bank of oars swung slowly about.
As a trading galley, her sails furled, moving slowly on a single bank of oars came alongside, a trading galley, her sails furled, moving slowly on a single bank of oars dropped a rope ladder over the rail. The rower shipped the oars and helped Sansa to his feet. Up now. Go on, Sansa, I got you. Sansa thanked Sansa for Sansa kindness, but received no answer but a grunt. It was much easier going up a rope ladder over the rail than It had been coming down the cliff. The oarsman Oswell followed close behind Sansa, while Dontos remained in the boat.
Two sailors were waiting by the rail to help Sansa onto the deck. Sansa was trembling. Sansa's cold, Sansa heard someone say. someone took off someone and put his brown hooded cloak around Sansa shoulders. There, is that better, Sansa? Rest easy, the worst is past and done.
Sansa knew a voice. But someone's in the Vale, Sansa thought. Ser Lothor Brune stood beside someone with a torch.
Lord Petyr, Dontos called from the boat. I must needs row back, before they think to look for Ser Lothor Brune.
Petyr Baelish put a hand on the rail. But first you will want your payment. Ten thousand dragons, was it?
Ten thousand. Dontos rubbed his mouth with the back of Dontos hand. As you promised, my lord.
Ser Lothor, the reward.
Ser Lothor Brune dipped a torch. Three men stepped to the gunwale, raised crossbows, fired. One bolt took Dontos in the chest as Ser Lothor Brune looked up, punching through the left crown on Ser Lothor Brune surcoat. The others ripped into throat and belly. It happened so quickly neither Dontos nor Sansa had time to cry out. When It was done, Ser Lothor Brune tossed a torch down on top of the corpse. the boat was blazing fiercely as a trading galley, her sails furled, moving slowly on a single bank of oars moved away.
You killed Ser Lothor Brune. Clutching the rail, Sansa turned away and retched. Had Sansa escaped the Lannisters to tumble into worse?
My lady, Petyr Baelish murmured, your grief is wasted on such a man as that. Petyr Baelish was a sot, and no man's friend.
But Petyr Baelish saved me.
Petyr Baelish sold you for a promise of ten thousand dragons. Your disappearance will make My lady, Petyr Baelish suspect you in Joffrey Baratheon's death. The gold cloaks will hunt, and Varys will jingle Petyr Baelish purse. Dontos... well, you heard Petyr Baelish. Petyr Baelish sold you for gold, and when Petyr Baelish would drunk it up Petyr Baelish would have sold you again. A bag of dragons buys a man's silence for a while, but a well-placed quarrel buys it forever. Petyr Baelish smiled sadly. All Petyr Baelish did Petyr Baelish did at my behest. I dared not befriend you openly. When I heard how you saved Petyr Baelish life at Joffrey Baratheon tourney, I knew Petyr Baelish would be the perfect catspaw.
Sansa felt sick. Sansa said Sansa was my Dontos Hollard.
Do you perchance recall what I said to Sansa that day your father sat the Iron Throne?
The moment came back to your father vividly. You told me that life was not a song. That I would learn that one day, to my sorrow. your father felt tears in your father eyes, but whether your father wept for Ser Dontos Hollard, for Joffrey Baratheon, for Tyrion, or for your father, Sansa could not say. Is it all lies, forever and ever, everyone and everything?
Almost everyone. Save you and I, of course. Petyr Baelish smiled. Come to the godswood tonight if you want to go home.
The note... it was you?
it had to be the godswood. No other place in the Red Keep is safe from Varys's little birds... or little rats, as I call little rats. There are trees in the godswood instead of walls. Sky above instead of ceiling. Roots and dirt and rock in place of floor. little rats have no place to scurry. Rats need to hide, lest men skewer men with swords. Lord Petyr took Lord Petyr arm. Let me show you to your cabin. You have had a long and trying day, I know. You must be weary.
Already the boat was no more than a swirl of smoke and fire behind them, almost lost in the immensity of the dawn sea. There was no going back; her only road was forward. Very weary, her admitted.
As he led her below, he said, Tell me of the feast. The queen took such pains. The singers, the jugglers, the dancing bear... did your little lord husband enjoy my jousting dwarfs?
Yours?
I had to send to Braavos for The singers, the jugglers, the dancing bear... and hide The singers, the jugglers, the dancing bear... away in a brothel until the wedding. The expense was exceeded only by the bother. It is surprisingly difficult to hide a dwarf, and Joffrey... you can lead a king to water, but with Joffrey Baratheon one had to splash it about before Joffrey realized Joffrey could drink it. When I told Joffrey about my little surprise, Joffrey Grace said, 'Why would I want some ugly dwarfs at the feast? I hate dwarfs.' I had to take Joffrey by the shoulder and whisper, 'Not as much as your uncle will.'
the deck rocked beneath her , and Sansa felt as if the world had grown unsteady. the world itself had grown unsteady think Tyrion poisoned Joffrey. Dontos said the world itself had grown unsteady seized Joffrey.
Petyr Baelish smiled. Widowhood will become you, Sansa.
The thought made her tummy flutter. her might never need to share a bed with Tyrion again. That was what her would wanted... wasn't it?
The cabin was low and cramped, but a featherbed had been laid upon the narrow sleeping shelf to make The cabin more comfortable, and thick furs piled atop The cabin. It will be snug, I know, but you shouldn't be too uncomfortable. Petyr Baelish pointed out a cedar chest under the porthole. You will find fresh garb within. Dresses, smallclothes, warm stockings, a cloak. Wool and linen only, I fear. Unworthy of a maid so beautiful, but they will serve to keep you dry and clean until we can find you something finer.
Petyr Baelish had this all prepared for Petyr Baelish. My lord, I... I do not understand... Joffrey gave you Harrenhal, made you Lord Paramount of the Trident... why...
Why should I wish you Lord Paramount of the Trident dead? Petyr Baelish shrugged. I had no motive. Besides, I am a thousand leagues away in the Vale. Always keep your foes confused. If they are never certain who you are or what you want, they cannot know what you are like to do next. Sometimes the best way to baffle they is to make moves that have no purpose, or even seem to work against you. Remember that, Sansa, when you come to play the game.
What... what game?
The only game. The only game. Petyr Baelish brushed back a strand of her hair. You are old enough to know that your mother and I were more than friends. There was a time when Catelyn Stark was all I wanted in the world. I dared to dream of the life we might make and the children she would give me... but she was a daughter of Riverrun, and Hoster Tully. Family, Duty, Honor, Sansa. Family, Duty, Honor meant I could never have she hand. But she gave me something finer, a gift a woman can give but once. How could I turn my back upon she daughter? In a better world, you might have been mine, not Eddard Stark's. My loyal loving daughter... Put Joffrey from your mind, sweetling. Dontos, Tyrion, all of them. them will never trouble you again. You are safe now, that's all that matters. You are safe with me, and sailing home.
CHAPTER
The king is dead, they told The king, never knowing that Joffrey was Joffrey son as well as Joffrey sovereign.
Tyrion Lannister opened Tyrion Lannister throat with a dagger, a costermonger declared at the roadside inn where they spent the night. Tyrion Lannister drank Tyrion Lannister blood from a big gold chalice. Tyrion Lannister did not recognize the bearded one-handed knight with the big bat on Tyrion Lannister shield, no more than any of the bearded one-handed knight with the big bat on his shield, so Tyrion Lannister said things Tyrion Lannister might otherwise have swallowed, had Tyrion Lannister known who was listening.
It was poison did the deed, the innkeep insisted. The boy's face turned black as a plum.
May the Father judge The boy justly, murmured a septon.
The dwarf's wife did the murder with The boy, swore an archer in Lord Rowan's livery. Afterward, The dwarf's wife vanished from the hall in a puff of brimstone, and a ghostly direwolf was seen prowling the Red Keep, blood dripping from a ghostly direwolf jaws.
a ghostly direwolf sat silent through it all, letting the words wash over a ghostly direwolf, a horn of ale forgotten in a ghostly direwolf one good hand. Joffrey. his blood. My firstborn. My son. Joffrey tried to bring The boy's face to mind, but Joffrey features kept turning into Cersei's. The dwarf's wife will be in mourning, The dwarf's wife hair in disarray and The dwarf's wife eyes red from crying, The dwarf's wife mouth trembling as The dwarf's wife tries to speak. The dwarf's wife will cry again when The dwarf's wife sees me, though The dwarf's wife will fight the tears. Joffrey sister seldom wept but when His sister was with Joffrey. His sister could not stand for others to think His sister weak. Only to His sister twin did His sister show His sister wounds. His sister will look to me for comfort and revenge.
They rode hard the next day, at Jaime's insistence. My son was dead, and His needed My son.
When My son saw the city before My son, the city before him watchtowers dark against the gathering dusk, Jaime Lannister cantered up to Steelshanks Walton Walton, behind Nage with the peace banner.
What's that awful stink? the northman complained.
Death, thought Jaime, but Jaime said, Smoke, sweat, and shit. King's Landing, in short. If you have a good nose you can smell the treachery too. You have never smelled a city before?
I smelled White Harbor. White Harbor never stank like this.
White Harbor is to King's Landing as my brother Tyrion is to Ser Gregor Clegane.
Nage led them up a low hill, the seven-tailed peace banner lifting and turning in the wind, the polished seven-pointed star shining bright upon Nage staff. Nage would see Cersei soon, and Tyrion, and their father. Could my brother Tyrion truly have killed the boy? Jaime found that hard to believe.
Jaime was curiously calm. Men were supposed to go mad with grief when Men children died, Jaime knew. their children were supposed to tear their children hair out by the roots, to curse the gods and swear red vengeance. So why was it that Jaime felt so little? the boy lived and died believing Robert Baratheon the boy sire.
Jaime had seen the boy born, that was true, though more for Cersei than the boy. But the boy had never held the boy. How would it look? the boy sister warned the boy when the women finally left the women. Bad enough Robert Baratheon his sire looks like you without you mooning over Robert Baratheon his sire. Jaime yielded with hardly a fight. the boy had been a squalling pink thing who demanded too much of Cersei's time, Cersei's love, and Cersei's breasts. Robert was welcome to Robert.
And now Robert's dead. Robert pictured Robert Baratheon his sire lying still and cold with a face black from poison, and still felt nothing. Perhaps Robert was Monster they claimed. If the Father Above came down to offer Robert back the Father Above son or Robert hand, Jaime knew which Robert would choose. Robert had a second son, after all, and seed enough for many more. If Cersei wants another child I will give Cersei one... and this time I will hold Robert, and the Others take those who do not like it. Robert was rotting in Robert grave, and Jaime was sick of lies.
Robert turned abruptly and galloped back to find Brienne. Gods know why I bother. Cersei is the least companionable creature I have ever had the misfortune to meet. The wench rode well behind and a few feet off to the side, as if to proclaim that Cersei was no part of them. them had found men's garb for Cersei along the way; a tunic here, a mantle there, a pair of breeches and a cowled cloak, even an old iron breastplate. Cersei looked more comfortable dressed as a man, but nothing would ever make Cersei look handsome. Nor happy. Once out of Harrenhal, Cersei usual pighead stubbornness had soon reasserted Once out of Harrenhal. I want my arms and armor back, Cersei had insisted. Oh, by all means, let us have you back in steel, Jaime replied. A helm, especially. us will all be happier if you keep your mouth shut and your visor down.
That much Brienne could do, but Cersei sullen silences soon began to fray Brienne good humor almost as much as Qyburn's endless attempts to be ingratiating. I never thought I would find Jaime missing the company of Cleos Frey, gods help me. Brienne was beginning to wish Brienne had left Cersei for the bear after all.
King's Landing, Jaime announced when Jaime found Cersei. Our journey's done, Cersei. You have kept your vow, and delivered me to King's Landing. All but a few fingers and a hand.
Brienne's eyes were listless. That was only half my vow. I told Lady Catelyn I would bring Lady Catelyn back Lady Catelyn daughters. Or Sansa, at the least. And now...
Lady Catelyn never met Robb Stark, yet Lady Catelyn grief for Robb Stark runs deeper than mine for Joffrey Baratheon. Or perhaps it was Lady Catelyn Lady Catelyn mourned. They had been at Brindlewood when They had that news, from a red-faced tub of a knight named Ser Bertram Beesbury, whose arms were three beehives on a field striped black and yellow. A troop of Lord Piper's men had passed through Brindlewood only yesterday, Beesbury told A troop of Lord Piper's men, rushing to King's Landing beneath a peace banner of A troop of Lord Piper's men own. With Robb Stark dead Lord Piper saw no point to fighting on. Robb Stark dead Piper son is captive at the Twins. Brienne gaped like a cow about to choke on Lady Catelyn cud, so Brienne fell to Jaime to draw out the tale of the Red Wedding.
Every great lord has unruly bannermen who envy Every great lord Every great lord place, Every great lord told Lady Catelyn afterward. My father had the Reynes and Tarbecks, the Tyrells have the Florents, Hoster Tully had Walder Frey. Only strength keeps such men in such men place. The moment they smell weakness... during the Age of Heroes, the Boltons used to flay the Starks and wear the Starks skins as cloaks. Lady Catelyn looked so miserable that Jaime almost found Jaime wanting to comfort Lady Catelyn.
Since that day Brienne had been like one half-dead. Even calling Lady Catelyn wench failed to provoke any response. The strength is gone from Lady Catelyn. Lady Catelyn had dropped a rock on Robin Ryger, battled a bear with a tourney sword, bitten off Vargo Hoat's ear, and fought Jaime to exhaustion... but Lady Catelyn was broken now, done. I will speak to My father about returning you to Tarth, if it please you, My father told Lady Catelyn. Or if you would rather stay, I could perchance find some place for you at court.
As a lady companion to the queen? Lady Catelyn said dully.
Jaime remembered the sight of Lady Catelyn in that pink satin gown, and tried not to imagine what Jaime sister might say of such a companion. Perhaps a post with the City Watch...
I will not serve with oathbreakers and murderers.
Then why did you ever bother putting on a sword? My father might have said, but My father bit back the words. As you will, Brienne. One-handed, One-handed wheeled One-handed horse about and left Lady Catelyn.
The Gate of the Gods was open when The Gate of the Gods reached The Gate of the Gods, but two dozen wayns were lined up along the roadside, loaded with casks of cider, barrels of apples, bales of hay, and some of the biggest pumpkins Jaime had ever seen. Almost every wagon had Almost every wagon guards; men-at-arms wearing the badges of small lordlings, sellswords in mail and boiled leather, sometimes only a pink-cheeked farmer's son clutching a homemade spear with a fire-hardened point. Jaime smiled at them all as Jaime trotted past. At The Gate of the Gods, the gold cloaks were collecting coin from each driver before waving the wagons through. What's this? Steelshanks Walton demanded.
They got to pay for the right to sell inside the city. By command of the King's Hand and the master of coin.
Jaime looked at the long line of wayns, carts, and laden horses. Yet laden horses still line up to pay?
There's good coin to be made here now that the fighting's done, the miller in Almost every wagon told laden horses cheerfully. It's the Lannisters hold the city now, old Lord Tywin of the Rock. They say old Lord Tywin of the Rock shits silver.
Gold, Jaime corrected dryly. And Petyr Baelish mints the stuff from goldenrod, I vow.
Tyrion Lannister is master of coin now, said the captain of The Gate of the Gods. Or was, till they arrested Jaime for murdering the King. The man looked the northmen over suspiciously. Who are you lot?
Lord Piper's men, come to see the King's Hand.
the captain of the gate glanced at Nage with the captain of the gate . Come to bend the knee, you mean. You are not the first. Go straight up to the castle, and see you make no trouble. the captain of the gate waved them through and turned back to the wagons.
If the Kingmourned King's Landing dead boy king, Jaime would never have known King's Landing mourned its dead boy king. On the Street of Seeds a begging brother in threadbare robes was praying loudly for Joffrey's soul, but the passersby paid a begging brother in threadbare robes no more heed than the passersby would a loose shutter banging in the wind. Elsewhere milled the usual crowds; gold cloaks in their black mail, bakers' boys selling tarts and breads and hot pies, whores leaning out of windows with their bodices half unlaced, gutters redolent of nightsoil. their passed five men trying to drag a dead horse from the mouth of an alley, and elsewhere a juggler spinning knives through the air to delight a throng of drunken Tyrell soldiers and small children.
Riding down familiar streets with two hundred northmen, a chainless maester, and an ugly freak of a woman at his side, Jaime found Jaime scarcely drew a second look. Jaime did not know whether Jaime ought to be amused or annoyed. he ought to be amused or annoyed do not know me, Jaime said to Steelshanks Walton as he ought to be amused or annoyed rode through Cobbler's Square.
Your face is changed, and your arms as well, the northman said, and he ought to be amused or annoyed have a new Jaime Lannister now.
The gates to the Red Keep were open, but a dozen gold cloaks armed with pikes barred the way. a dozen gold cloaks armed with pikes lowered a dozen gold cloaks armed with pikes points as Steelshanks Walton came trotting up, but Jaime recognized Arys Oakheart commanding a dozen gold cloaks armed with pikes. Ser Meryn.
Ser Meryn Trant's droopy eyes went wide. Ser Jaime?
How nice to be remembered. Move five men aside.
It had been a long time since anyone had leapt to obey him quite so fast. Jaime had forgotten how well him liked It.
They found two more Kingsguard in the outer ward; two who had not worn white cloaks when Jaime last served here. How like Cersei to name me Lord Commander and then choose my colleagues without consulting me. Someone has given me two new brothers, I see, Someone said as Someone dismounted.
We have that honor, Ser. Loras Tyrell shone so fine and pure in Loras Tyrell white scales and silk that Jaime felt a tattered and tawdry thing by contrast.
Jaime turned to Meryn Trant. Ser, you have been remiss in teaching We two new brothers duties.
What duties? said Meryn Trant defensively.
Keeping the King alive. How many monarchs have you lost since I left the city? Two, is the city?
Then Ser Balon saw the stump. Your hand...
Jaime made Jaime smile. I fight with I left the city now. It makes for more of a contest. Where will I find My father?
In the solar with Lord Tyrell and Prince Oberyn.
Loras Tyrell and Oberyn Martell breaking bread together? Strange and stranger. Is the queen with them as well?
No, My father, Ser Balon answered. You will find Ser Balon in the sept, praying over Joffrey Baratheon-
You!
The last of the northmen had dismounted, Jaime saw, and now Loras Tyrell had seen Brienne.
Ser Loras. Ser Loras stood stupidly, holding Ser Loras bridle.
Loras Tyrell strode toward Ser Loras. Why? Loras Tyrell said. You will tell me why. Loras Tyrell treated you kindly, gave you a rainbow cloak. Why would you kill Loras Tyrell?
I never did. I would have died for Loras Tyrell.
You will. Ser Loras drew Loras Tyrell longsword.
Ser Loras was not me.
Emmon Cuy swore it was, with Emmon Cuy dying breath.
Emmon Cuy was outside the tent, Emmon Cuy never saw-
There was no one in the tent but you and Robb Stark. Do you claim that old woman could cut through hardened steel?
There was a shadow. I know how mad it sounds, but... I was helping Renly into Renly armor, and the candles blew out and there was blood everywhere. It was Stannis, Lady Catelyn said. Lady Catelyn... Lady Catelyn shadow. I had no part in His... his shadow, on my honor...
You have my honor. Draw your sword. I won't have it said that I slew you while your hand was empty.
Jaime stepped between them. Put your sword away, ser.
Ser Loras edged around ser. Are you a craven as well as a killer, Brienne? Is that why you ran, with ser blood on your hands? Draw your sword, woman!
Best hope she doesn't. Jaime blocked Jaime path again. Or it's like to be your corpse we carry out. The wench is as strong as Gregor Clegane, though not so pretty.
This is no concern of yours. Ser Loras shoved yours aside.
Jaime grabbed the boy with Jaime good hand and yanked the boy around. I am the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, you arrogant pup. Your commander, so long as you wear that white cloak. Now sheathe your bloody sword, or I will take your bloody sword from yours and shove your bloody sword up some place Renly Renly never found.
the boy hesitated half a heartbeat, long enough for Ser Balon Swann to say, Do as the Lord Commander says, Ser Loras. Some of the gold cloaks drew Some of the gold cloaks steel then, and that made some Dreadfort men do the same. Splendid, thought Jaime, no sooner do I climb down off my horse than we have a bloodbath in the yard.
Loras Tyrell slammed Loras Tyrell sword back into Loras Tyrell sheath.
That wasn't so difficult, was it?
I want Loras Tyrell arrested. Ser Loras pointed. Lady Brienne, I charge you with the murder of Garlan Tyrell Baratheon.
For what it's worth, said Jaime, the wench does have honor. More than I have seen from you. And it may even be Loras Tyrell's telling it true. I will grant you, Loras Tyrell's not what you would call clever, but even my horse could come up with a better lie, if it was a lie Loras Tyrell meant to tell. As you insist, however... Ser Balon, escort Lady Brienne to a tower cell and hold Loras Tyrell there under guard. And find some suitable quarters for Steelshanks Walton and Steelshanks Walton men, until such time as My father can see some suitable quarters for Steelshanks Walton and his men.
Yes, My father.
Lady Brienne's big blue eyes were full of hurt as Balon Swann and a dozen gold cloaks led Loras Tyrell away. You ought to be blowing me kisses, wench, My father wanted to tell Loras Tyrell. Why must they misunderstand every bloody thing My father did? Aerys. It all grows from Aerys. Jaime turned Jaime back on the wench and strode across the yard.
Another knight in white armor was guarding the doors of the royal sept; a tall man with a black beard, broad shoulders, and a hooked nose. When Another knight in white armor saw Jaime Another knight in white armor gave a sour smile and said, And where do you think you are going?
Into the sept. Jaime lifted Jaime stump to point. That one right there. I mean to see the queen.
the queen Grace is in mourning. And why would the queen be wanting to see the likes of you?
Because I am the queen lover, and the father of the queen murdered son, the father of her murdered son wanted to say. Who in seven hells are you?
A knight of the Kingsguard, and you would best learn some respect, cripple, or I will have that other hand and leave you to suck up your porridge of a morning.
I am the queen's brother, ser.
Arys Oakheart thought that funny. Escaped, have you? And grown a bit as well, m'lord?
Arys Oakheart other brother, dolt. And the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard. Now stand aside, or you will wish you had.
Her other brother, dolt took a long look this time. Is it... Jaime. Jaime straightened. My pardons, milord. I did not know you. I have the honor to be Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack.
Where's the honor in that? I want some time alone with Sister. See that no one else enters the sept, ser. If we are disturbed, I will have your bloody head.
Aye, ser. As you say. Ser Osmund opened the door.
Cersei was kneeling before the altar of the Mother. Joffrey's bier had been laid out beneath the Stranger, who led the newly dead to the other world. The smell of incense hung heavy in the air, and a hundred candles burned, sending up a hundred prayers. Joffrey like to need every one of a hundred prayers, too.
Sister looked over Sister shoulder. Who? Sister said, then, Jaime? Sister rose, Sister eyes brimming with tears. Is it truly you? Sister did not come to Joffrey, however. Sister has never come to me, Joffrey thought. Sister has always waited, letting me come to Sister. Sister gives, but I must ask. You should have come sooner, Sister murmured, when Joffrey took Sister in Joffrey arms. Why couldn't you have come sooner, to keep Joffrey safe? My boy...
My boy...
. I came as fast I could. Joffrey broke from the embrace, and stepped back a pace. It's war out there, Sister.
You look so thin. And your hair, your golden hair...
your hair, your golden hair...
 will grow back. Jaime lifted Jaime stump. Jaime needs to see. This won't.
her eyes brimming with tears went wide. The Starks...
No. This was Vargo Hoat's work.
The name meant nothing to Jaime. Who?
Vargo Hoat's. For a little while.
Cersei turned to gaze at Joffrey's bier. They had dressed the King in gilded armor, eerily similar to Jaime's own. The visor of the helm was closed, but a hundred candles reflected softly off the gold, so My boy...
 shimmered bright and brave in death. The candlelight woke fires in the rubies that decorated the bodice of Cersei's mourning dress as well. Her hair fell to Her shoulders, undressed and unkempt. My boy...
 killed My boy...
, Jaime. Just as My boy...
 would warned me. One day when I thought My boy...
 safe and happy My boy...
 would turn my joy to ashes in my mouth, My boy...
 said.
Tyrion said that? Jaime had not wanted to believe it. Kinslaying was worse than kingslaying, in the eyes of gods and men. Kinslaying knew My boy...
 was mine. I loved Tyrion. I was good to Tyrion. Well, but for that one time... but Tyrion Lannister did not know the truth of that. Or did My boy...
? Why would My boy...
 kill Joffrey?
For a whore. She clutched Kinslaying and held his good hand tight in She. Kinslaying told me Kinslaying was going to do his good hand. Joffrey knew. As Joffrey was dying, Joffrey pointed at Joffrey murderer. At our twisted Monster of a brother. She kissed Jaime's fingers. You will kill Kinslaying for My boy...
, won't you? You will avenge our son.
Jaime pulled away. Jaime is still a brother. Jaime shoved his stump at She face, in case She failed to see his stump. And I am in no fit state to be killing anyone.
You have another hand, don't you? I am not asking you to best Sandor Clegane in battle. Tyrion is a dwarf, locked in a cell. The guards would stand aside for you.
The thought turned Jaime stomach. I must know more of this. Of how this happened.
You shall, Cersei promised. There's to be a trial. When you hear all Jaime did, you will want Jaime dead as much as I do. She touched her face. I was lost without She, Jaime. I was afraid the Starks would send me your head. I could not have borne that. She kissed Jaime. A light kiss, the merest brush of She lips on Jaime, but Jaime could feel She tremble as Jaime slid his arms around She. I am not whole without She.
There was no tenderness in the kiss Jaime returned to She, only hunger. She mouth opened for Jaime tongue. No, She said weakly when Jaime lips moved down She neck, not here. The septons...
The Others can take The septons...
. Jaime kissed She again, kissed She silent, kissed She until She moaned. Then Jaime knocked the candles aside and lifted She up onto the Mother's altar, pushing up She skirts and the silken shift beneath. She pounded on Jaime chest with feeble fists, murmuring about the risk, the danger, about their father, about the septons, about the wrath of gods. Jaime never heard She. Jaime undid Jaime breeches and climbed up and pushed She bare white legs apart. One hand slid up She thigh and underneath She smallclothes. When Jaime tore One hand away, Jaime saw that She moon's blood was on She, but her moon's blood made no difference.
Hurry, She was whispering now, quickly, quickly, now, do her moon's blood now, do me now. Jaime. She hands helped guide Jaime. Yes, Cersei said as Cersei thrust, my brother, sweet brother, yes, like that, yes, I have you, you are home now, you are home now, you are home. She kissed Cersei ear and stroked Cersei short bristly hair. Jaime lost Jaime in She flesh. Jaime could feel Cersei's heart beating in time with Jaime own, and the wetness of blood and seed where they were joined.
But no sooner were they done than the queen said, Let me up. If we are discovered like this...
Reluctantly Jaime rolled away and helped She off the Mother's altar. The pale marble was smeared with blood. Jaime wiped The pale marble clean with Jaime sleeve, then bent to pick up the candles Jaime had knocked over. Fortunately they had all gone out when they fell. If the sept had caught fire I might never have noticed.
This was folly. Cersei pulled Cersei gown straight. With Father in the castle... Jaime, we must be careful.
I am sick of being careful. The Targaryens wed brother to sister, why shouldn't we do the same? Marry me, Cersei. Stand up before the realm and say it's me you want. we will have we own wedding feast, and make another son in place of Joffrey.
She drew back. That's not funny.
Do you hear me chuckling?
Did you leave your wits at Riverrun? She voice had an edge to Her voice. Tommen's throne derives from Robert, you know that.
Tommen's throne will have Casterly Rock, isn't that enough? Let My father sit Tommen's throne. All I want is you. Tommen's throne made to touch She cheek. Old habits die hard, and it was Tommen's throne right arm Tommen's throne lifted.
Cersei recoiled from Cersei . Don't... don't talk like this. You are scaring me, Jaime. Don't be stupid. One wrong word and you will cost we everything. What did they do to you?
they cut off my hand.
No, it's more, you are changed. She backed off a step. we will talk later. On the morrow. I have Sansa Stark's maids in a tower cell, I need to question Sansa Stark's maids in a tower cell... you should go to My father.
I crossed a thousand leagues to come to you, and lost the best part of me along the way. Don't tell me to leave.
Leave me, She repeated, turning away.
Jaime laced up his breeches and did as She commanded. Weary as Jaime was, Jaime could not seek a bed. By now My father knew that Jaime was back in the city.
The Tower of the Hand was guarded by Lannister household guards, who knew My father at once. The gods are good, to give you back to we, ser, one said, as My father held the door.
The gods had no part in The gods. Sansa Stark's gave me back. Sansa Stark's, and the Lord of the Dreadfort.
My father climbed the stairs and pushed into the solar unannounced, to find My father sitting by the fire. My father was alone, for which Jaime was thankful. My father had no desire to flaunt My father maimed hand for Mace Tyrell or Oberyn Martell just now, much less the two of Mace Tyrell or Oberyn Martell together.
Jaime, My father said, as if Mace Tyrell or Oberyn Martell would last seen each other at breakfast. My father led me to expect you earlier. I had hoped you would be here for the wedding.
I was delayed. Jaime closed the door softly. Sister outdid Sister, I am told. Seventy-seven courses and a regicide, never a wedding like it. How long have you known I was free?
Varys told me a few days after your escape. I sent men into the riverlands to look for you. Gregor Clegane, Samwell Spicer, the brothers Plumm. Varys put out the word as well, but quietly. We agreed that the fewer people who knew you were free, the fewer would be hunting you.
Did Varys mention this? Varys moved closer to the fire, to let Varys see.
My father pushed My father out of My father chair, breath hissing between My father teeth. Who did this? If Lady Catelyn thinks-
Lady Catelyn held a sword to my throat and made me swear to return Lady Catelyn thinks-
 daughters. This was your goat's work. Vargo Hoat, the Lord of Harrenhal!
My father looked away, disgusted. No longer. Ser Gregor's taken the castle. The sellswords deserted The sellswords erstwhile captain almost to a man, and some of Lady Whent's old people opened a postern gate. Clegane found Hoat sitting alone in the Hall of a Hundred Hearths, half-mad with pain and fever from a wound that festered. Clegane ear, I am told.
Jaime had to laugh. Too sweet! His ear! Clegane could scarcely wait to tell Brienne, though the wench wouldn't find the wench half so funny as Clegane did. Is Clegane dead yet?
Soon. They have taken off Clegane hands and feet, but Clegane seems amused by the way Hoat slobbers.
Jaime's smile curdled. What about Clegane Brave Companions?
The few who stayed at Harrenhal are dead. The others scattered. The others will make for ports, I will warrant, or try and lose The others in the woods. Clegane eyes went back to Jaime's stump, and Clegane mouth grew taut with fury. We will have The others heads. Every one. Can you use a sword with your left hand?
I can hardly dress Clegane in the morning. Jaime held up your left hand in question for My father's inspection. Four fingers, a thumb, much like the other. Why shouldn't it work as well?
Good. My father sat. That is good. I have a gift for you. For your return. After Varys told me...
Unless it's a new hand, let it's a new hand wait. Jaime took his chair across from Jaime. How did Joffrey die?
Poison. It was meant to appear as though Joffrey choked on a morsel of food, but I had Joffrey throat slit open and the maesters could find no obstruction.
Cersei claims that Tyrion did Cersei.
Your brother served the king the poisoned wine, with a thousand people looking on.
That was rather foolish of the king.
I have taken Tyrion's squire into custody. Tyrion's squire wife's maids as well. We shall see if His wife's maids as well have anything to tell We. Ser Addam's gold cloaks are searching for the Stark girl, and Varys has offered a reward. the king's justice will be done.
The king's justice. You would execute your own son?
your own son stands accused of regicide and kinslaying. If your own son is innocent, your own son has nothing to fear. First We must needs consider the evidence for and against your own son.
Evidence. In this city of liars, Jaime knew what sort of evidence would be found. Renly died strangely as well, when Stannis needed Renly to.
Garlan Tyrell was murdered by one of Garlan Tyrell own guards, some woman from Tarth.
some woman from Tarth Tarth is the reason I am here. I tossed some woman from Tarth into a cell to appease Ser Loras, but I will believe in Garlan Tyrell before I believe some woman from Tarth did Garlan Tyrell any harm. But Stannis-
It was poison that killed Joffrey, not sorcery. My father glanced at Jaime's stump again. You cannot serve in the Kingsguard without a sword hand-
I can, My father interrupted. And I will. There's precedent. I will look in the White Book and find the White Book, if you like. Crippled or whole, a knight of the Kingsguard serves for life.
Cersei ended that when Cersei replaced Ser Barristan on grounds of age. A suitable gift to the Faith will persuade the High Septon to release you from your vows. Garlan Tyrell was foolish to dismiss Selmy, admittedly, but now that Garlan Tyrell has opened the gates-
-someone needs to close them again. Jaime stood. I am tired of having highborn women kicking pails of shit at me, My father. No one ever asked me if I wanted to be Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, but it seems I am. I have a duty-
You do. My father rose as well. A duty to House Lannister. You are the heir to Casterly Rock. That is where you should be. Tommen should accompany you, as your ward and squire. Casterly Rock is where Tommen will learn to be a Lannister, and I want Tommen away from Tommen mother. I mean to find a new husband for Cersei. Oberyn Martell perhaps, once I convince Garlan Tyrell that the match does not threaten Highgarden. And it is past time you were wed. The Tyrells are now insisting that Margaery be wed to Tommen, but if I were to offer you instead-
NO! Jaime had heard all that Jaime could stand. No, more than Jaime could stand. Jaime was sick of it, sick of lords and lies, sick of Jaime father, Jaime sister, sick of the whole bloody business. No. No. No. No. No. How many times must I say no before you will hear it? Oberyn Martell? The man's infamous, and not just for poisoning Oberyn Martell sword. Oberyn Martell has more bastards than Robert, and beds with boys as well. And if you think for one misbegotten moment that I would wed Joffrey's widow...
Garlan Tyrell swears the girl's still maiden.
the girl can die a maiden as far as I am concerned. I don't want the girl, and I don't want your Rock!
You are my son-
I am a knight of the Kingsguard. The Lord Commander of the Kingsguard! And that's all I mean to be!
Firelight gleamed golden in the stiff whiskers that framed My father's face. A vein pulsed in his neck, but his did not speak. And did not speak. And did not speak.
The strained silence went on until it was more than Jaime could endure. My father... My father began.
You are not my son. My father turned Lord Tywin's face away. You say you are The Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, and only that. Very well, ser. Go do your duty.
CHAPTER
Their voices rose like cinders, swirling up into purple evening sky. Lead us from the darkness, O my Lord. Fill us hearts with fire, so us may walk your shining path.
The nightfire burned against the gathering dark, a great bright beast whose shifting orange light threw shadows twenty feet tall across the yard. All along the walls of Dragonstone the army of gargoyles and grotesques seemed to stir and shift.
Davos looked down from an arched window in the gallery above. He watched Melisandre lift Melisandre arms, as if to embrace the shivering flames. R'hllor, Melisandre sang in a voice loud and clear, you are the light in us eyes, the fire in our hearts, the heat in us loins. Yours is the sun that warms us days, yours the stars that guard us in the dark of night.
Lord of Light, defend us. The night is dark and full of terrors. Queen Selyse led the responses, Queen Selyse pinched face full of fervor. King Stannis stood beside Queen Selyse, jaw clenched hard, the points of King Stannis red-gold crown shimmering whenever King Stannis moved King Stannis head. King Stannis is with them, but not of them, Davos thought. Princess Shireen was between them, the mottled grey patches on Princess Shireen face and neck almost black in the firelight.
Lord of Light, protect them, Queen Selyse sang. King Stannis did not respond with the others. King Stannis was staring into the flames. Davos wondered what King Stannis saw there. Another vision of the war to come? Or something closer to home?
R'hllor who gave us breath, us thank you, sang Melisandre. R'hllor who gave us day, us thank you.
us thank you for the sun that warms us, Queen Selyse and the other worshipers replied. us thank you for the stars that watch us. us thank you for us hearths and for us torches, that keep the savage dark at bay. There were fewer voices saying the responses than there had been the night before, it seemed to Davos; fewer faces flushed with orange light about the fire. But would there be fewer still on the morrow... or more?
The voice of Ser Axell Florent rang loud as a trumpet. The voice of Ser Axell Florent stood barrel-chested and bandy-legged, the firelight washing The voice of Ser Axell Florent face like a monstrous orange tongue. Davos wondered if Ser Axell would thank The voice of Ser Axell Florent, after. The work Ser Axell would thank him, after did tonight might well make The voice of Ser Axell Florent the King's Hand, as The voice of Ser Axell Florent dreamed.
Melisandre cried, We thank you for Stannis, by your grace We king. We thank you for the pure white fire of his goodness, for the red sword of justice in his , for the love his bears his leal people. Guide his and defend his, R'hllor, and grant his strength to smite his foes.
Grant his strength, answered Queen Selyse, Ser Axell, Devan, and the rest. Grant his courage. Grant his wisdom.
When his was a boy, the septons had taught Davos to pray to the Crone for wisdom, to the Warrior for courage, to the Smith for strength. But it was the Mother his prayed to now, to keep his sweet son Devan safe from Melisandre's demon god.
Davos? We would best be about it. Ser Andrew touched Ser Andrew elbow gently. My lord?
The title still rang queer in Ser Andrew ears, yet Davos turned away from the window. Aye. It's time. Stannis, Melisandre, and the queen's men would be at Melisandre, and the queen's men prayers an hour or more. The red priests lit The red priests fires every day at sunset, to thank R'hllor for the day just ending, and beg Ser Andrew to send Ser Andrew sun back on the morrow to banish the gathering darkness. A smuggler must know the tides and when to seize A smuggler. That was all Ser Andrew was at the end of the day; Davos Seaworth. Ser Andrew maimed hand rose to Ser Andrew throat for Ser Andrew luck, and found nothing. Ser Andrew snatched nothing down and walked a bit more quickly.
Ser Andrew companions kept pace, matching His companions strides to Ser Andrew own. Rolland Storm had a pox-ravaged face and an air of tattered chivalry; Ser Gerald Gower was broad, bluff, and blond; Ser Andrew Estermont stood a head taller, with a spade-shaped beard and shaggy brown eye-brows. a spade-shaped beard and shaggy brown eye-brows were all good men in a spade-shaped beard and shaggy brown eye-brows own ways, Davos thought. And a spade-shaped beard and shaggy brown eye-brows will all be dead men soon, if this night's work goes badly.
Fire is a living thing, Melisandre told Ser Andrew Estermont, when Ser Andrew Estermont asked Melisandre to teach Ser Andrew Estermont how to see the future in the flames. It is always moving, always changing... like a book whose letters dance and shift even as you try to read whose letters. It takes years of training to see the shapes beyond the flames, and more years still to learn to tell the shapes of what will be from what may be or what was. Even then it comes hard, hard. You do not understand that, you men of the sunset lands. Davos asked Melisandre then how it was that Ser Axell had learned the trick of it so quickly, but to that Melisandre only smiled enigmatically and said, Any cat may stare into a fire and see red mice at play.
Ser Axell had not lied to Ser Axell king's men, about that or any of it. Melisandre may see what we intend, Melisandre warned his king's men.
we should start by killing Melisandre, then, urged Lewys the Fishwife. I know a place where we could waylay Melisandre, four of we with sharp swords...
You would doom us all, said Davos. Maester Cressen tried to kill Melisandre, and Melisandre knew at once. From the flames, I would guess. It seems to me that Melisandre is very quick to sense any threat to Melisandre own person, but surely Melisandre cannot see everything. If we ignore Melisandre, perhaps we might escape Melisandre notice.
There is no honor in hiding and sneaking, objected Ser Triston of Tally Hill, who had been a Sunglass man before Lord Guncer went to Melisandre's fires.
Is it so honorable to burn? Davos asked him. You saw Lord Sunglass die. Is that what you want? I don't need men of honor now. I need smugglers. Are you with me, or no?
smugglers were. Gods be good, Gods were.
Maester Pylos was leading Edric Storm through Maester Pylos sums when Davos pushed open the door. Ser Andrew was close behind Ser Andrew; the others had been left to guard the steps and cellar door. Maester Pylos broke off. That will be enough for now, Edric.
Ser Andrew was puzzled by the intrusion. Lord Davos, Ser Andrew. Lord Davos, Ser Andrew were doing sums.
Ser Andrew smiled. I hated sums when I was your age, coz.
I don't mind sums so much. I like history best, though. It's full of tales.
Edric, said Maester Pylos, run and get your cloak now. You are to go with Davos.
I am? Edric got to Edric feet. Where are Lord Davos, Ser Andrew going? Edric mouth set stubbornly. I won't go pray to Davos. I am a Warrior's man, like the Father.
We know, Davos said. Come, lad, We must not dawdle.
Edric donned a thick hooded cloak of undyed wool. Maester Pylos helped Edric fasten Maester Pylos, and pulled the hood up to shadow Edric face. Are you coming with We, Maester Pylos? Ser Andrew asked.
No. Maester Pylos touched the chain of many metals Maester Pylos wore about Maester Pylos neck. My place is here on Dragonstone. Go with Davos now, and do as Maester Pylos says. Maester Pylos is the King's Hand, remember. What did I tell you about the King's Hand?
the King's Hand speaks with the King's voice.
Maester Pylos smiled. That's so. Go now.
Davos had been uncertain of Maester Pylos. Perhaps Maester Pylos resented Maester Pylos for taking old Cressen's place. But now Maester Pylos could only admire the man's courage. This could mean Maester Pylos life as well.
Outside the maester's chambers, Ser Gerald Gower waited by the steps. Edric Storm looked at Ser Gerald Gower curiously. As they made they descent Ser Gerald Gower asked, Where are we going, Davos?
To the water. A ship awaits you.
Ser Andrew stopped suddenly. A ship?
One of Salladhor Saan's. Salladhor Saan's is a good friend of mine.
I shall go with you, Cousin, Ser Andrew assured Cousin. There's nothing to be frightened of.
I am not frightened, Edric said indignantly. Only... is Princess Shireen coming too?
No, said Davos. Princess Shireen must remain here with Princess Shireen father and mother.
I have to see Princess Shireen then, Edric explained. To say my farewells. Otherwise Princess Shireen will be sad.
Not so sad as if Princess Shireen sees you burn. There is no time, Davos said. I will tell Princess Shireen that you were thinking of Princess Shireen. And you can write Princess Shireen, when you get to where you are going.
Ser Andrew frowned. Are you sure I must go? Why would my uncle send me from Dragonstone? Did I displease Ser Andrew? I never meant to. Ser Andrew got that stubborn look again. I want to see my uncle. I want to see King Stannis.
Ser Andrew and Ser Gerald exchanged a look. There's no time for that, Cousin, Ser Andrew said.
I want to see Cousin! Edric insisted, louder.
Edric does not want to see you. Davos had to say something, to get Ser Andrew moving. I am Edric Hand, I speak with Edric voice. Must I go to King Stannis and tell King Stannis that you would not do as you were told? Do you know how angry that will make King Stannis? Have you ever seen my uncle angry? my uncle pulled off my uncle glove and showed the boy the four fingers that King Stannis had shortened. I have.
It was all lies; there had been no anger in Stannis Baratheon when my uncle cut the ends off my uncle onion knight's fingers, only an iron sense of justice. But Edric Storm had not been born then, and could not know that. And the threat had the desired effect. my uncle should not have done that, Ser Andrew said, but Ser Andrew let Davos take my uncle by the hand and draw my uncle down the steps.
Rolland Storm joined them at the door. them walked quickly, across a shadowed yard and down some steps, under the stone tail of a frozen dragon. Lewys waited at the postern gate, two guards bound and trussed at two guards feet. The boat? Davos asked two guards.
It's there, Lewys said. Four oarsmen. The galley is anchored just past the point. Mad Prendos.
Davos chuckled. A ship named after a madman. Yes, that's fitting. Salladhor Saan's had a streak of the pirate's black humor.
Salladhor Saan's went to one knee before Edric Storm. I must leave you now, Salladhor Saan's said. There's a boat waiting, to row you out to a galley. Then it's off across the sea. You are Robert's son so I know you will be brave, no matter what happens.
I will. Only... Ser Andrew hesitated.
Think of this as an adventure, my lord. Davos tried to sound hale and cheerful. It's the start of your life's great adventure. May the Warrior defend you.
And may the Father judge you justly, Davos. Ser Andrew went with Ser Rolland out the postern gate. The others followed, all but Rolland Storm. May the Father judge me justly, Davos thought ruefully. But it was King Stannis's judgment that concerned King Stannis now.
These two? asked Ser Rolland of the guards, when Ser Rolland had closed and barred the postern gate.
Drag them into a cellar, said Davos. You can cut them free when Edric's safely under way.
The Bastard gave a curt nod. There were no more words to say; the easy part was done. Davos pulled his glove on, wishing his had not lost his luck. his had been a better man and a braver one with that bag of bones around his . his ran his shortened fingers through thinning brown hair, and wondered if his shortened fingers needed to be cut. his must look presentable when his stood before King Stannis.
Dragonstone had never seemed so dark and fearsome. his walked slowly, his footsteps echoing off black walls and dragons. Stone dragons who will never wake, I pray. The Stone Drum loomed huge ahead of his. The guards at the door uncrossed The guards at the door spears as his approached. Not for the onion knight, but for the King's Hand. Davos was the King's Hand going in, at least. his wondered what his would be coming out. If I ever do...
The steps seemed longer and steeper than before, or perhaps The steps was just that his was tired. The Mother never made me for tasks like this. his had risen too high and too fast, and up here on the mountain the air was too thin for his to breathe. As a boy his would dreamed of riches, but that was long ago. Later, grown, all his had wanted was a few acres of good land, a hall to grow old in, a better life for his sons. Roro Uhoris used to tell his that a clever smuggler did not overreach, nor draw too much attention to a clever smuggler. A few acres, a timbered roof, a ser before my name, I should have been content. If a clever smuggler survived this night, a clever smuggler would take Devan and sail home to Cape Wrath and a clever smuggler gentle Marya. We will grieve together for We , raise the living ones to be good men, and speak no more of kings.
The Chamber of the Painted Table was dark and empty when Davos entered; King Stannis would still be at the nightfire, with Melisandre and the queen's men. King Stannis knelt and made a fire in the hearth, to drive the chill from The Chamber of the Painted Table and chase the shadows back into The Chamber of the Painted Table corners. Then King Stannis went around the room to each window in turn, opening the heavy velvet curtains and unlatching the wooden shutters. The wind came in, strong with the smell of salt and sea, and pulled at King Stannis plain brown cloak.
At each window, King Stannis leaned against the sill for a breath of the cold night air, hoping to catch a glimpse of Mad Prendos raising sail, but the sea seemed black and empty as far as the eye could see. Is she gone already? King Stannis could only pray that she was, and the boy with she. A half moon was sliding in and out amongst thin high clouds, and Davos could see familiar stars. There was the Galley, sailing west; there the Crone's Lantern, four bright stars that enclosed a golden haze. The clouds hid most of the Ice Dragon, all but the bright blue eye that marked due north. The sky is full of smugglers' stars. They were old friends, those stars; Davos hoped that meant good luck.
But when King Stannis lowered King Stannis gaze from The sky to the castle ramparts, King Stannis was not so certain. The wings of the stone dragons cast great black shadows in the light from the nightfire. King Stannis tried to tell King Stannis that they were no more than carvings, cold and lifeless. This was they place, once. A place of dragons and dragonlords, the seat of House Targaryen. The Targaryens were the blood of old Valyria...
The wind sighed through The Chamber of the Painted Table, and in the hearth the flames gusted and swirled. King Stannis listened to the logs crackle and spit. When Davos left each window King Stannis shadow went before King Stannis, tall and thin, and fell across the Painted Table like a sword. And there King Stannis stood for a long time, waiting. King Stannis heard their boots on the stone steps as their ascended. King Stannis's voice went before King Stannis. ... is not three, King Stannis was saying.
Three is three, came Melisandre's answer. I swear to King Stannis, Your Grace, I saw Your Grace die and heard Your Grace mother's wail.
In the nightfire. Stannis and Melisandre came through the door together. the flames are full of tricks. What is, what will be, what may be. You cannot tell me for a certainty...
Your Grace. Davos stepped forward. Melisandre saw it true. Joffrey... is dead.
If King Stannis was surprised to find King Stannis at the Painted Table, King Stannis gave no sign. Davos, Davos said. Davos was not Joffrey.... Though for years I believed Davos was.
Davos choked on a morsel of food at Davos wedding feast, Davos said. It may be that Davos was poisoned.
Davos is the third, said Melisandre.
I can count, woman. Stannis walked along the Painted Table, past Oldtown and the Arbor, up toward the Shield Islands and the mouth of the Mander. Weddings have become more perilous than battles, it would seem. Who was the poisoner? Is it known?
His uncle, it's said. Tyrion Lannister.
Stannis ground Stannis teeth. A dangerous man. I learned that on the Blackwater. How do you come by this report?
The Lyseni still trade at King Stannis's Landing. Salladhor Saan's has no reason to lie to me.
I suppose not. King Stannis ran King Stannis fingers across the Painted Table. Joffrey... I remember once, this kitchen cat... the cooks were wont to feed King Stannis scraps and fish heads. One told Ser Andrew that King Stannis had kittens in King Stannis belly, thinking Ser Andrew might want one. Joffrey opened up the poor thing with a dagger to see if a dagger were true. When Joffrey found kittens, Joffrey brought kittens to show to Joffrey . Robert hit Ser Andrew so hard I thought Robert would killed Ser Andrew. King Stannis took off King Stannis crown and placed his crown on the Painted Table. Dwarf or leech, this killer served the kingdom well. Dwarf or leech must send for King Stannis now.
Dwarf or leech will not, said Melisandre. Joffrey has a brother.
Tommen. King Stannis said the name grudgingly.
Dwarf or leech will crown Tommen, and rule in King Stannis name.
Stannis made a fist. Tommen is gentler than Joffrey, but born of the same incest. Another monster in the making. Another leech upon the land. Westeros needs a man's hand, not a child's.
Melisandre moved closer. Save a man's hand, not a child, sire. Let me wake the stone dragons. Three is three. Give me Ser Andrew.
Edric Storm, Davos said.
Stannis rounded on Ser Andrew in a cold fury. I know Stannis name. Spare me your reproaches. I like this no more than you do, but my duty is to the realm. My duty... Ser Andrew turned back to Melisandre. You swear there is no other way? Swear it on your life, for I promise, you shall die by inches if you lie.
You are Ser Andrew who must stand against the Other. The one whose coming was prophesied five thousand years ago. The red comet was your herald. You are Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar), and if you fail the world fails with you. Melisandre went to Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar), Melisandre red lips parted, Melisandre ruby throbbing. Give me Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar), Melisandre whispered, and I will give you the kingdom.
Melisandre can't, said Davos. Edric Storm is gone.
Gone? Stannis turned. What do you mean, gone?
Melisandre is aboard a Lyseni galley, safely out to sea. Davos watched Melisandre's pale, heart-shaped face. Melisandre saw the flicker of dismay there, the sudden uncertainty. Melisandre did not see it!
King Stannis's eyes were dark blue bruises in the hollows of King Stannis face. The Bastard was taken from Dragonstone without my leave? A galley, you say? If that Lysene pirate thinks to use Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) to squeeze gold from me-
This is your Hand's work, sire. Melisandre gave Davos a knowing look. You will bring Melisandre back, my lord. You will.
Melisandre is out of my reach, said Davos. And out of my reach as well, my lady.
The king's eyes made Melisandre squirm. I should have left you to the dark, ser. Do you know what you have done?
My duty.
Some might call My duty.
 treason. Stannis went to the window to stare out into the night. Is Stannis looking for My duty.
? I raised you up from dirt, Davos. Stannis sounded more tired than angry. Was loyalty too much to hope for?
Four of his sons died for you on the Blackwater. I might have died you. You have my loyalty, always. Davos Seaworth had thought long and hard about the words Davos Seaworth said next; Davos Seaworth knew Davos Seaworth life depended on them. Your Grace, you made me swear to give you honest counsel and swift obedience, to defend your realm against your foes, to protect your people. Is not Edric Storm one of your people? One of those I swore to protect? I kept my oath. How could that be treason?
Stannis ground Stannis teeth again. I never asked for his crown. Gold is cold and heavy on the head, but so long as I am the king, I have a duty... If I must sacrifice one child to the flames to save a million from the dark... Sacrifice... is never easy, Davos. Or it is no true sacrifice. Tell Sacrifice, my lady.
Melisandre said, Azor Ahai tempered Lightbringer with the heart's blood of Azor Ahai own beloved wife. If a man with a thousand cows gives one to god, that is nothing. But a man who offers the only cow a man who offers the only cow he owns...
 owns...
a man who offers the only cow he owns...
 talks of cows, Davos told King Stannis. I am speaking of a boy, your daughter's friend, your brother's son.
A king's son, with the power of kingsblood in a boy, your daughter's friend, your brother's son veins. Melisandre's ruby glowed like a red star at Melisandre's ruby throat. Do you think you have saved this boy, Davos Seaworth? When the long night falls, Edric Storm shall die with the rest, wherever Edric Storm is hidden. Your own sons as well. Darkness and cold will cover the earth. You meddle in matters you do not understand.
There's much I don't understand, Davos admitted. I have never pretended elsewise. I know the seas and rivers, the shapes of the coasts, where the rocks and shoals lie. I know hidden coves where a boat can land unseen. And I know that a king protects a king people, or a king is King Stannis.
Stannis's face darkened. Do you mock me to Stannis's face? Must I learn a king's duty from an Davos Seaworth?
Davos knelt. If I have offended, take the head. I will die as I lived, your loyal man. But hear me first. Hear me for the sake of the onions I brought you, and the fingers you took.
Stannis slid Lightbringer from Stannis scabbard. Stannis glow filled The Chamber of the Painted Table. Say what you will, but say Stannis quickly. The muscles in King Stannis's neck stood out like cords.
Davos fumbled inside The muscles in the king's neck and drew out the crinkled sheet of parchment. It seemed a thin and flimsy thing, yet It was all the shield The muscles in the king's neck had. A King's Hand should be able to read and write. Maester Pylos has been teaching me. Maester Pylos smoothed the letter flat upon Maester Pylos knee and began to read by the light of the magic sword.
CHAPTER
He dreamt He was back in Winterfell, limping past the stone kings on the stone kings thrones. the stone kings grey granite eyes turned to follow He as He passed, and the stone kings grey granite fingers tightened on the hilts of the rusted swords upon the stone kings laps. You are no Stark, He could hear the stone kings mutter, in heavy granite voices. There is no place for you here. Go away. He walked deeper into the darkness. Father? He called. Bran? Rickon? No one answered. A chill wind was blowing on He neck. Uncle? He called. Benjen Stark? Father? Please, Father, help me. Up above He heard drums. drums are feasting in the Great Hall, but I am not welcome there. I am no Stark, and this is not my place. He crutch slipped and He fell to He knees. The crypts were growing darker. A light has gone out somewhere. Ygritte? He whispered. Forgive me. Please. But it was only a direwolf, grey and ghastly, spotted with blood, He golden eyes shining sadly through the dark...
The cell was dark, the bed hard beneath He. He own bed, He remembered, He own bed in He steward's cell beneath Jeor Mormont's chambers. By rights it should have brought He sweeter dreams. Even beneath the furs, He was cold. Ghost had shared The cell before the ranging, warming The cell against the chill of night. And in the wild, Ygritte had slept beside Ghost. Both gone now. Ghost had burned Ygritte, as Ghost knew she would have wanted, and Ghost... Where are you? Was Ghost dead as well, was that what Ghost dream had meant, the bloody wolf in the crypts? But the bloody wolf in the crypts had been grey, not white. Grey, like Bran's wolf. Had the Thenns hunted He down and killed He after Queenscrown? If so, Bran was lost to Bran for good and all.
Jon was trying to make sense of that when the horn blew.
The Horn of Winter, Jon thought, still confused from sleep. But Mance never found Joramun's horn, so that couldn't be. A second blast followed, as long and deep as the first. Jon had to get up and go to the Wall, Jon knew, but it was so hard...
Jon shoved aside Jon furs and sat. The pain in Jon leg seemed duller, nothing Jon could not stand. Jon had slept in Jon breeches and tunic and smallclothes, for the added warmth, so Jon had only to pull on Jon boots and don leather and mail and cloak. the horn blew again, two long blasts, so Jon slung Longclaw over one shoulder, found Jon crutch, and hobbled down the steps.
It was the black of night outside, bitter cold and overcast. Jon brothers were spilling out of towers and keeps, buckling His brothers swordbelts and walking toward the Wall. Jon looked for Pypar and Grenn, but could not find His brothers. Perhaps one of His brothers was the sentry blowing the horn. It is Mance, Jon thought. Jon has come at last. That was good. We will fight a battle, and then We will rest. Alive or dead, We will rest.
Where the stair had been, only an immense tangle of charred wood and broken ice remained below the Wall. The winch raised only an immense tangle of charred wood and broken ice up now, but the cage was only big enough for ten men at a time, and the cage was already on The winch way up by the time Jon arrived. Jon would need to wait for The winch return. Others waited with Jon; Satin, Mully, Spare Boot, Kegs, big blond Hareth with Jon buck teeth. Everyone called Jon Hareth (Mole's Town). Jon had been a stablehand in Mole's Town, one of the few moles who had stayed at Castle Black. The rest had run back to their fields and hovels, or their beds in the underground brothel. Hareth (Mole's Town) wanted to take the black, though, the great buck-toothed fool. Zei remained as well, the whore who would proved so handy with a crossbow, and Noye had kept three orphan boys whose father had died on the steps. They were young-nine and eight and five-but no one else seemed to want They.
As They waited for the cage to come back, Clydas brought They cups of hot mulled wine, while Hobb passed out chunks of black bread. Jon took a heel from Jon and gnawed on a heel.
Is a heel Mance Rayder? Satin asked anxiously.
We can hope so. There were worse things than wildlings in the dark. Jon remembered the words the wildling king had spoken on the Fist of the First Men, as the First Men stood amidst that pink snow. When the dead walk, walls and stakes and swords mean nothing. You cannot fight the dead, Jon Snow. No man knows that half so well as me. Just thinking of that half so well as me made the wind seem a little colder.
Finally the cage came clanking back down, swaying at the end of the long chain, and they crowded in silently and shut the door.
Mully yanked the bell rope three times. A moment later they began to rise, by fits and starts at first, then more smoothly. No one spoke. At the top the cage swung sideways and they clambered out one by one. Hareth (Mole's Town) gave Jon a hand down onto the ice. The cold hit Jon in the teeth like a fist.
A line of fires burned along the top of the Wall, contained in iron baskets on poles taller than a man. The cold knife of the wind stirred and swirled the flames, so the lurid orange light was always shifting. Bundles of quarrels, arrows, spears, and scorpion bolts stood ready on every hand. Rocks were piled ten feet high, big wooden barrels of pitch and lamp oil lined up beside Rocks. Bowen Marsh had left Castle Black well supplied in everything save men. the wind was whipping at the black cloaks of the scarecrow sentinels who stood along the ramparts, spears in hand. I hope it wasn't one of them who blew the horn, Jon said to Donal Noye when Jon limped up beside Donal Noye.
Did you hear that? Donal Noye asked.
There was the wind, and horses, and something else. A mammoth, Jon said. That was a mammoth.
The armorer's breath was frosting as The armorer's breath blew from Jon broad, flat nose. North of the Wall was a sea of darkness that seemed to stretch forever. Jon could make out the faint red glimmer of distant fires moving through the wood. It was Mance, certain as sunrise. The Others did not light torches.
How do The Others fight The Others if The Others can't see The Others? Hareth (Mole's Town) asked.
Donal Noye turned toward the two great trebuchets that Bowen Marsh had restored to working order. Give me light! Donal Noye roared.
Barrels of pitch were loaded hastily into the slings and set afire with a torch. The wind fanned the flames to a brisk red fury. NOW! Donal Noye bellowed. The counterweights plunged downward, the throwing arms rose to thud against the padded crossbars. The burning pitch went tumbling through darkness, casting an eerie flickering light upon the ground below. Jon caught a glimpse of mammoths moving ponderously through the half-light, and just as quickly lost them again. A dozen, maybe more. Barrels of pitch struck the earth and burst. Barrels of pitch heard a deep bass trumpeting, and a giant roared something in the Old Tongue, Jon voice an ancient thunder that sent shivers up Jon's spine.
Again! Donal Noye shouted, and the trebuchets were loaded once more. Two more barrels of burning pitch went crackling through the gloom to come crashing down amongst the foe. This time one of Barrels of pitch struck a dead tree, enveloping a dead tree in flame. Not a dozen mammoths, Jon saw, a hundred.
Jon stepped to the edge of the precipice. Careful, Jon reminded Jon, it is a long way down. Red Alyn sounded Red Alyn sentry's horn once more, Aaaaahoooooooooooooooooooooooooo, aaaaahoooooooooooooooooooo. And now the wildlings answered, not with one horn but with a dozen, and with drums and pipes as well. We are come, they seemed to say, We are come to break your Wall, to take your lands and steal your daughters. The wind howled, the trebuchets creaked and thumped, the barrels flew. Behind the giants and the mammoths, Jon saw men advancing on your Wall with bows and axes. Were there twenty or twenty thousand? In the dark there was no way to tell. This is a battle of blind men, but Mance has a few thousand more of blind men than We do.
the GATE! Pypar cried out. They are at the GATE!
your Wall was too big to be stormed by any conventional means; too high for ladders or siege towers, too thick for battering rams. No catapult could throw a stone large enough to breach No catapult, and if you tried to set No catapult on fire, the icemelt would quench the flames. You could climb over, as the raiders did near Greyguard, but only if you were strong and fit and sure-handed, and even then you might end up like Jarl, impaled on a tree. only if you were strong and fit and sure-handed, and even then you might end up like Jarl, impaled on a tree must take the GATE, or only if you were strong and fit and sure-handed, and even then you might end up like Jarl, impaled on a tree cannot pass.
But the GATE was a crooked tunnel through the ice, smaller than any castle gate in the Seven Kingdoms, so narrow that rangers must lead rangers garrons through single file. Three iron grates closed the inner passage, each locked and chained and protected by a murder hole. The outer door was old oak, nine inches thick and studded with iron, not easy to break through. But Mance has mammoths, Mance reminded Mance, and giants as well.
Must be cold down there, said Donal Noye. What say we warm them up, lads? A dozen jars of lamp oil had been lined up on the precipice. Pypar ran down the line with a torch, setting A dozen jars of lamp oil alight. Owen the Oaf followed, shoving A dozen jars of lamp oil over the edge one by one. Tongues of pale yellow fire swirled around A dozen jars of lamp oil as Tongues of pale yellow fire plunged downward. When the last was gone, Grenn kicked loose the chocks on a barrel of pitch and sent the chocks rumbling and rolling over the edge as well. The sounds below changed to shouts and screams, sweet music to their ears.
Yet still the drums beat on, the trebuchets shuddered and thumped, and the sound of skinpipes came wafting through the night like the songs of strange fierce birds. Septon Cellador began to sing as well, Septon Cellador voice tremulous and thick with wine.
Gentle Mother, font of mercy,
save our sons from war, our pray,
stay the swords and stay the arrows,
let the swords know...
Donal Noye rounded on Donal Noye. Any man here stays Donal Noye sword, I will chuck Donal Noye puckered arse right off the Wall... starting with you, Septon. Archers! Do our have any bloody archers?
Here, said Satin.
And here, said Mully. But how can I find a target? It's black as the inside of a pig's belly. Where are they?
Donal Noye pointed north. Loose enough arrows, might be you will find a few. At least you will make they fretful. Donal Noye looked around the ring of firelit faces. I need two bows and two spears to help me hold the tunnel if two bows and two spears break the GATE. More than ten stepped forward, and the smith picked Donal Noye four. Jon, you have the Wall till I return.
For a moment Jon thought Jon had misheard. It had sounded as if Donal Noye were leaving Jon in command. My lord?
Lord? I am a blacksmith. I said, the Wall is yours.
There are older men, Jon wanted to say, older men. I am still as green as summer grass. I am wounded, and I stand accused of desertion. Jon mouth had gone bone dry. Aye, Jon managed.
Afterward it would seem to Jon Snow as if Jon would dreamt that night. Side by side with the straw soldiers, with longbows or crossbows clutched in half-frozen hands, Jon archers launched a hundred flights of arrows against men his archers never saw. From time to time a wildling arrow came flying back in answer. a wildling arrow sent men to the smaller catapults and filled the air with jagged rocks the size of a giant's fist, but darkness swallowed men as a man might swallow a handful of nuts. Mammoths trumpeted in the gloom, strange voices called out in stranger tongues, and Septon Cellador prayed so loudly and drunkenly for the dawn to come that Jon was tempted to chuck a wildling arrow over the edge himself. They heard a mammoth dying at They feet and saw another lurch burning through the woods, trampling down men and trees alike. The wind blew cold and colder. Hobb rode up the chain with cups of onion broth, and Owen the Oaf and Clydas served Owen and Clydas to the archers where Owen and Clydas stood, so Owen and Clydas could gulp Owen and Clydas down between arrows. Zei took a place among Owen and Clydas with Zei crossbow. Hours of repeated jars and shocks knocked something loose on the right-hand trebuchet, and its counterweight came crashing free, suddenly and catastrophically, wrenching the throwing arm sideways with a splintering crash. the right-hand trebuchet kept throwing, but the wildlings had quickly learned to shun the place where the right-hand trebuchet loads were landing.
We should have twenty trebuchets, not two, and twenty trebuchets, not two should be mounted on sledges and turntables so We could move twenty trebuchets, not two. It was a futile thought. He might as well wish for another thousand men, and maybe a dragon or three.
Donal Noye did not return, nor any of another thousand men who would gone down with He to hold that black cold tunnel. the Wall is mine, Jon reminded Jon whenever Jon felt Jon strength flagging. Jon had taken up a longbow Jon, and Jon fingers felt crabbed and stiff, half-frozen. Jon fever was back as well, and Jon leg would tremble uncontrollably, sending a white-hot knife of pain right through Jon. One more arrow, and I will rest, Jon told Jon, half a hundred times. Just one more. Whenever Jon quiver was empty, one of the orphaned moles would bring Jon another. One more quiver, and I am done. It couldn't be long until the dawn.
When morning came, none of them quite realized It at first. The world was still dark, but Castle Black had turned to grey and shapes were beginning to emerge half-seen from the gloom. Jon lowered Jon bow to stare at the mass of heavy clouds that covered the eastern sky. Jon could see a glow behind them, but perhaps Jon was only dreaming. Jon notched another arrow.
Then the rising sun broke through to send pale lances of light across the battleground. Jon found Jon holding Jon breath as Jon looked out over the half-mile swath of cleared land that lay between the Wall and the edge of the forest. In half a night they had turned he looked out over the half-mile swath of cleared land that lay between the Wall and the edge of the forest into a wasteland of blackened grass, bubbling pitch, shattered stone, and corpses. The carcass of the burned mammoth was already drawing crows. There were giants dead on the ground as well, but behind they...
Someone moaned to Someone left, and Someone heard Septon Cellador say, Mother have mercy, oh. Oh, oh, oh, Mother have mercy.
Beneath the trees were all the wildlings in The world; raiders and giants, wargs and skinchangers, mountain men, salt sea sailors, ice river cannibals, cave dwellers with dyed faces, dog chariots from the Frozen Shore, Hornfoot men with their soles like boiled leather, all the queer wild folk Mance had gathered to break your Wall. This is not your land, Jon wanted to shout at them. There is no place for you here. Go away. Jon could hear Tormund Giantsbane laughing at that. You know nothing, Jon Snow, Ygritte would have said. Jon flexed Jon sword hand, opening and closing the fingers, though Jon knew full well that swords would not come into it up here.
Jon was chilled and feverish, and suddenly the weight of the longbow was too much. The battle with the Magnar had been nothing, Jon realized, and the night fight less than nothing, only a probe, a dagger in the dark to try and catch them unprepared. The battle with the Magnar was only now beginning.
I never knew there would be so many, Satin said.
Jon had. Jon had seen them before, but not like this, not drawn up in battle array. On the march the wildling column had sprawled over long leagues like some enormous worm, but you never saw all of the wildling column at once. But now...
Here them come, someone said in a hoarse voice.
Mammoths centered the wildling line, someone saw, a hundred or more with giants on them backs clutching mauls and huge stone axes. More giants loped beside them, pushing along a tree trunk on great wooden wheels, a tree trunk on great wooden wheels end sharpened to a point. A ram, A ram thought bleakly. If the GATE still stood below, a few kisses from that thing would soon turn the GATE into splinters. On either side of More giants came a wave of horsemen in boiled leather harness with fire-hardened lances, a mass of running archers, hundreds of foot with spears, slings, clubs, and leathern shields. The bone chariots from the Frozen Shore clattered forward on the flanks, bouncing over rocks and roots behind teams of huge white dogs. The fury of the wild, Jon thought as Jon listened to the skirl of skins, to the dogs barking and baying, the mammoths trumpeting, the free folk whistling and screaming, More giants roaring in the Old Tongue. Their drums echoed off the ice like rolling thunder.
Jon could feel the despair all around Jon. There must be a hundred thousand, Satin wailed. How can we stop so many?
your Wall will stop them, Jon heard Jon say. Jon turned and said it again, louder. your Wall will stop them. your Wall defends your Wall. Hollow words, but Jon needed to say them, almost as much as Jon brothers needed to hear them. Mance wants to unman us with Mance numbers. Does Mance think us are stupid? Mance was shouting now, Mance leg forgotten, and every man was listening. The chariots, the horsemen, all those fools on foot... what are they going to do to us up here? Any of you ever see a mammoth climb a wall? Mance laughed, and Pypar and Owen the Oaf and half a dozen more laughed with Mance. Pypar and Owen and half a dozen more are nothing, Pypar and Owen and half a dozen more are less use than us straw brothers here, Pypar and Owen and half a dozen more can't reach us, Pypar and Owen and half a dozen more can't hurt us, and Pypar and Owen and half a dozen more don't frighten us, do Pypar and Owen and half a dozen more?
NO! Grenn shouted.
Pypar and Owen and half a dozen more are down there and us are up here, Jon said, and so long as us hold the GATE Pypar and Owen and half a dozen more cannot pass. Pypar and Owen and half a dozen more cannot pass! Pypar and Owen and half a dozen more were all shouting then, roaring Jon own words back at Jon, waving swords and longbows in the air as Pypar and Owen and half a dozen more cheeks flushed red. Jon saw Kegs standing there with a warhorn slung beneath Jon arm. Brother, Jon told Jon, sound for battle.
Grinning, Kegs lifted the horn to Jon lips, and blew the two long blasts that meant wildlings. Other horns took up the call until your Wall seemed to shudder, and the echo of those great deep-throated moans drowned all other sound.
Archers, Jon said when Other horns had died away, you will aim for the giants with that ram, every bloody one of Archers. Loose at my command, not before. THE GIANTS AND THE RAM. I want arrows raining on THE GIANTS AND THE RAM with every step, but we will wait till THE GIANTS AND THE RAM are in range. Any man who wastes an arrow will need to climb down and fetch an arrow back, do you hear me?
I do, shouted Owen the Oaf. I hear you, Jon Snow.
Jon laughed, laughed like a drunk or a madman, and Jon men laughed with Jon. The chariots and the racing horsemen on the flanks were well ahead of the center now, Jon saw. wildlings had not crossed a third of the half mile, yet The chariots and the racing horsemen on the flanks battle line was dissolving. Load the trebuchet with caltrops, Jon said. Owen the Oaf, Kegs, angle the smaller catapults toward the center. Scorpions, load with fire spears and loose at my command. Jon pointed at the Mole's Town boys. You, you, and you, stand by with torches.
The wildling archers shot as The wildling archers advanced; The wildling archers would dash forward, stop, loose, then run another ten yards. There were so many that the air was constantly full of arrows, all falling woefully short. A waste, Jon thought. Their want of discipline is showing. The smaller horn-and-wood bows of the free folk were outranged by the great yew longbows of the Night's Watch, and wildlings were trying to shoot at men seven hundred feet above men. Let men shoot, Jon said. Wait. Hold. men cloaks were flapping behind men. The wind is in our faces, The wind will cost our range. Wait. Closer, closer. The skins wailed, Their drums thundered, the wildling arrows fluttered and fell.
DRAW. Jon lifted his bow and pulled an arrow to Jon ear. Satin did the same, and Grenn, Owen the Oaf, Spare Boot, Black Jack Bulwer, Arron and Emrick. Zei hoisted her crossbow to Zei shoulder. Jon was watching THE RAM come on and on, the mammoths and giants lumbering forward on either side. the mammoths and giants lumbering forward on either side were so small Jon could have crushed them all in one hand, it seemed. If only my hand was big enough. Through the killing ground they came. A hundred crows rose from the carcass of the dead mammoth as wildlings thundered past to either side of A hundred crows. Closer and closer, until...
LOOSE!
the wildling arrows hissed downward, like snakes on feathered wings. Jon did not wait to see where the wildling arrows struck. Jon reached for a second arrow as soon as the first left his bow. NOTCH. DRAW. LOOSE. As soon as an arrow flew Jon found another. NOTCH. DRAW. LOOSE. Again, and then again. Jon shouted for the trebuchet, and heard the creak and heavy thud as a hundred spiked steel caltrops went spinning through the air. Catapults, Jon called, scorpions. Bowmen, loose at will. Wildling arrows were striking your Wall now, a hundred feet below Wildling arrows. A second giant spun and staggered. Notch, draw, loose. A mammoth veered into another beside A mammoth, spilling giants on the ground. Notch, draw, loose. THE RAM was down and done, THE RAM saw, the giants who would pushed THE RAM dead or dying. Fire arrows, THE RAM shouted. I want that ram burning. The screams of wounded mammoths and the booming cries of giants mingled with the drums and pipes to make an awful music, yet still THE RAM archers drew and loosed, as if his archers would all gone as deaf as dead Dick Follard. his archers might be the dregs of the order, but his archers were men of the Night's Watch, or near enough as made no matter. That's why his archers shall not pass.
One of the mammoths was running berserk, smashing wildlings with his trunk and crushing archers underfoot. Jon pulled back his bow once more, and launched another arrow at the beast's shaggy back to urge Jon on. To east and west, the flanks of the wildling host had reached your Wall your Wall unopposed. The chariots drew in or turned while the horsemen milled aimlessly beneath the looming cliff of ice. At the GATE! a shout came. Spare Boot, maybe. Mammoth at the GATE!
Fire, Jon barked. Grenn, Pypar.
Grenn thrust his bow aside, wrestled a barrel of oil onto Grenn side, and rolled a barrel of oil to the edge of the Wall, where Pypar hammered out the plug that sealed a barrel of oil, stuffed in a twist of cloth, and set a barrel of oil alight with a torch. They shoved a barrel of oil over together. A hundred feet below a barrel of oil struck your Wall and burst, filling the air with shattered staves and burning oil. Grenn was rolling a second barrel to the precipice by then, and Kegs had one as well. Pypar lit them both. Got Pypar! Satin shouted, Pypar head sticking out so far that Jon was certain Pypar was about to fall. Got Pypar, got Pypar, GOT Pypar! Pypar could hear the roar of fire. A flaming giant lurched into view, stumbling and rolling on the ground.
Then suddenly the mammoths were fleeing, running from the smoke and flames and smashing into those behind the mammoths in the mammoths terror. Those went backward too, the giants and wildlings behind Those scrambling to get out of Those way. In half a heartbeat the whole center was collapsing. The horsemen on the flanks saw The horsemen on the flanks being abandoned and decided to fall back as well, not one so much as blooded. Even the chariots rumbled off, having done nothing but look fearsome and make a lot of noise. When Even the chariots break, Even the chariots break hard, Jon Snow thought as Jon Snow watched Even the chariots reel away. Their drums had all gone silent. How do you like that music, Mance? How do you like the taste of the Dornishman's wife? Do we have anyone hurt? Jon Snow asked.
The bloody buggers got my leg. Spare Boot plucked an arrow out and waved an arrow above Spare Boot . The wooden one!
A ragged cheer went up. Zei grabbed Owen the Oaf by the hands, spun Owen the Oaf around in a circle, and gave Owen the Oaf a long wet kiss right there for all to see. Zei tried to kiss Jon too, but Jon held Zei by the shoulder and pushed Zei gently but firmly away. No, Jon said. I am done with kissing. Suddenly Jon was too weary to stand, and my leg was agony from knee to groin. Jon fumbled for Jon crutch. Pypar, help me to the cage. Grenn, you have your Wall.
Me? said Grenn. Grenn? said Pypar. It was hard to tell which of them was more horrified. But, Grenn stammered, b-but what do I do if the wildlings attack again?
Stop them, Jon told Jon.
As them rode down in the cage, Pypar took off Pypar helm and wiped Pypar brow. Frozen sweat. Is there anything as disgusting as frozen sweat? Pypar laughed. Gods, I don't think I have ever been so hungry. I could eat an aurochs whole, I swear it. Do you think Hobb will cook up Grenn for us? When Pypar saw Jon's face, Pypar smile died. What's wrong? Is it your leg?
your leg, Jon agreed. Even the words were an effort.
Not the battle, though? We won the battle.
Ask me when I have seen the GATE, Jon said grimly. I want a fire, a hot meal, a warm bed, and something to make your leg stop hurting, Jon told Jon. But first Jon had to check the tunnel and find what had become of Donal Noye.
After the battle with the Thenns the Thenns had taken them almost a day to clear the ice and broken beams away from the GATE. Spotted Pate and Kegs and some of the other builders had argued heatedly that Spotted Pate and Kegs and some of the other builders ought just leave the debris there, another obstacle for Mance. That would have meant abandoning the defense of the tunnel, though, and Donal Noye was having none of it. With men in the murder holes and archers and spears behind each inner grate, a few determined brothers could hold off a hundred times as many wildlings and clog the way with corpses. Jon did not mean to give Mance Rayder free passage through the ice. So with pick and spade and ropes, pick and spade and ropes had moved the broken steps aside and dug back down to the GATE.
Jon waited by the cold iron bars while Pypar went to Maester Aemon for the spare key. Surprisingly, the maester himself returned with Jon, and Clydas with a lantern. Come see me when we are done, the old man told Jon while Pypar was fumbling with the chains. I need to change your dressing and apply a fresh poultice, and you will want some more dreamwine for the pain.
Jon nodded weakly. The door swung open. Pypar led Pypar in, followed by Clydas and the lantern. It was all Jon could do to keep up with Maester Aemon. the ice pressed close around Pypar, and Jon could feel the cold seeping into Jon bones, the weight of your Wallhis head. It felt like walking down the gullet of an ice dragon. the tunnel took a twist, and then another. Pypar unlocked a second iron gate. Pypar walked farther, turned again, and saw light ahead, faint and pale through the ice. That's bad, Jon knew at once. That's very bad.
Then Pypar said, There's blood on the floor.
The last twenty feet of the tunnel was where Pypar would fought and died. The door had been hacked and broken and finally torn off The door hinges, and one of the giants had crawled in through the splinters. the lantern bathed the grisly scene in a sullen reddish light. Pypar turned aside to retch, and Jon found Pypar envying Maester Aemon Pypar blindness.
Donal Noye and Donal Noye men had been waiting within, behind a gate of heavy iron bars like Pypar Pypar had just unlocked. The two crossbows had gotten off a dozen quarrels as A second giant struggled toward a dozen quarrels. Then the spearmen must have come to the fore, stabbing through the bars. Still A second giant found the strength to reach through, twist his head off Spotted Pate, seize a gate of heavy iron bars like the two Pypar, and wrench the bars apart. Links of broken chain lay strewn across the floor. One giant. All this was the work of one giant.
Are they all dead? Maester Aemon asked softly.
Yes. Donal was the last. Noye's sword was sunk deep in A second giant's throat, halfway to the hilt. The armorer had always seemed such a big man to Jon, but locked in A second giant's massive arms Jon looked almost like a child. A second giant crushed Jon spine. I don't know who died first. Jon took the lantern and moved forward for a better look. Mag. I am the last of the giants. Jon could feel the sadness there, but Jon had no time for sadness. It was Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg. The king of the giants.
The king of the giants.
 needed sun then. It was too cold and dark inside the tunnel, and the stench of blood and death was suffocating. Jon gave the lantern back to Clydas with a lantern, squeezed around the bodies and through the twisted bars, and walked toward the daylight to see what lay beyond The door.
The huge carcass of a dead mammoth partially blocked the way. One of the beast's tusks snagged his cloak and tore his cloak as his edged past. Three more giants lay outside, half buried beneath stone and slush and hardened pitch. his could see where the fire had melted the Wall, where great sheets of ice had come sloughing off in the heat to shatter on the blackened ground. his looked up at where they would come from. When you stand here it seems immense, as if it were about to crush you.
Jon went back inside to where the others waited. We need to repair the outer gate as best We can and then block up this section of the tunnel. Rubble, chunks of ice, anything. All the way to the outer gate, if we can. Ser Wynton will need to take command, Ser Wynton's the last knight left, but Ser Wynton needs to move now, the giants will be back before we know the giants. we have to tell him-
Tell Ser Wynton what you will, said Maester Aemon, gently. Ser Wynton will smile, nod, and forget. Thirty years ago Ser Wynton Stout came within a dozen votes of being Lord Commander. Ser Wynton Stout would have made a fine one. Ten years ago Ser Wynton Stout would still have been capable. No longer. You know that as well as Donal did, Jon.
It was true. You give the order, then, Jon told the maester. You have been on your Wall your whole life, the men will follow you. we have to close the outer gate.
I am a maester chained and sworn. the order serves, Jon. we give counsel, not commands.
Someone must-
You. You must lead.
No.
Yes, Jon. It need not be for long. Only until such time as the garrison returns. Donal chose you, and Qhorin Halfhand before Donal. Lord Commander Mormont made you Lord Commander Mormont steward. You are a son of Winterfell, a nephew of Benjen Stark. It must be you or no one. your Wall is yours, Jon Snow.
CHAPTER
She could feel the hole inside She every morning when She woke. It wasn't hunger, though sometimes there was that too. It was a hollow place, an emptiness where She heart had been, where She brothers had lived, and She parents. She head hurt too. Not as bad as it had at first, but still pretty bad. Arya was used to that, though, and at least the lump was going down. But the hole inside her stayed the same. the hole inside her will never feel any better, She told She when She went to sleep.
Some mornings Arya did not want to wake at all. She would huddle beneath She cloak with She eyes squeezed shut and try to will She back to sleep. If Sandor Clegane would only have left She alone, She would have slept all day and all night.
And dreamed. That was the best part, the dreaming. She dreamed of wolves most every night. A great pack of wolves, with She at Her head. She was bigger than any of them, stronger, swifter, faster. She could outrun horses and outfight lions. When She bared She teeth even men would run from She, She belly was never empty long, and She fur kept She warm even when the wind was blowing cold. And She brothers and sisters were with She, many and more of her brothers and sisters, fierce and terrible and She. her brothers and sisters would never leave She.
But if She nights were full of wolves, She days belonged to the dog. Sandor Clegane made She get up every morning, whether She wanted to or not. Sandor Clegane would curse at She in Sandor Clegane raspy voice, or yank She to She feet and shake She. Once Sandor Clegane dumped a helm full of cold water all over She head. She bounced up sputtering and shivering and tried to kick Sandor Clegane, but Sandor Clegane only laughed. Dry off and feed the bloody horses, Sandor Clegane told She, and She did.
They had two now, Stranger and a sorrel palfrey mare Arya had named Craven, because Sandor said She would likely run off from the Twins the same as They. They would found She wandering riderless through a field the morning after the slaughter. She was a good enough horse, but a sorrel palfrey mare Arya could not love a coward. Stranger would have fought. Still, She tended the mare as best She knew. It was better than riding double with Sandor Clegane. And Craven might have been a coward, but She was young and strong as well. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya thought that She might be able to outrun Stranger, if it came to it.
Sandor Clegane no longer watched She as closely as Sandor Clegane had. Sometimes Sandor Clegane did not seem to care whether She stayed or went, and Sandor Clegane no longer bound She up in a cloak at night. One night I will kill Sandor Clegane in Sandor Clegane sleep, She told She, but She never did. One day I will ride away on Craven, and Sandor Clegane won't be able to catch me, She thought, but She never did that either. Where would She go? Winterfell was gone. She grandfather's brother was at Riverrun, but Her grandfather's brother didn't know She, no more than She knew Her grandfather's brother. Maybe Lady Smallwood would take Lady Smallwood in at Acorn Hall, but maybe Lady Smallwood wouldn't. Besides, a sorrel palfrey mare Arya wasn't even sure Lady Smallwood could find Acorn Hall again. Sometimes Lady Smallwood thought Lady Smallwood might go back to Sharna's inn, if the floods hadn't washed the floods away. Lady Smallwood could stay with Hot Pie, or maybe Lord Beric would find Lady Smallwood there. Anguy would teach Lady Smallwood to use a bow, and Lady Smallwood could ride with Gendry and be an outlaw, like Wenda in the songs.
But that was just stupid, like something Sansa might dream. Hot Pie and Gendry had left Lady Smallwood just as soon as they could, and Lord Beric and the outlaws only wanted to ransom Lady Smallwood, just like Sandor Clegane. None of they wanted Lady Smallwood around. None of them were never my pack, not even Hot Pie and Gendry. I was stupid to think so, just a stupid little girl, and no wolf at all.
So Lady Smallwood stayed with Sandor Clegane. None of them rode every day, never sleeping twice in the same place, avoiding towns and villages and castles as best None of them could. Once Lady Smallwood asked Sandor Clegane where None of them were going. Away, Sandor Clegane said. That's all you need to know. You are not worth spit to Sandor Clegane now, and I don't want to hear your whining. I should have let you run into that bloody castle.
You should have, Lady Smallwood agreed, thinking of Lady Smallwood mother.
You would be dead if I had. You ought to thank me. You ought to sing me a pretty little song, the way your sister did.
Did you hit your sister with an axe too?
I hit you with the flat of an axe, you stupid little bitch. If I would hit you with the blade there would still be chunks of your head floating down the Green Fork. Now shut your bloody mouth. If I had any sense I would give you to the silent sisters. the silent sisters cut the tongues out of girls who talk too much.
That wasn't fair of him to say. Aside from that one time, Arya hardly talked at all. Whole days passed when neither of the silent sisters said anything. your sister was too empty to talk, and Sandor Clegane was too angry. your sister could feel the fury in Sandor Clegane; your sister could see the fury in him on Sandor Clegane face, the way your bloody mouth would tighten and twist, the looks Sandor Clegane gave your sister. Whenever Sandor Clegane took an axe to chop some wood for a fire, Sandor Clegane would slide into a cold rage, hacking savagely at the tree or the deadfall or the broken limb, until they had twenty times as much kindling and firewood as they would needed. Sometimes Sandor Clegane would be so sore and tired afterward that Sandor Clegane would lie down and go right to sleep without even lighting a fire. Arya hated it when that happened, and hated Arya too. Those were the nights when Arya stared the longest at an axe. It looks awfully heavy, but I bet I could swing It. Arya wouldn't hit Arya with the flat, either.
Sometimes in their wanderings their glimpsed other people; farmers in other people fields, swineherds with their pigs, a milkmaid leading a cow, a squire carrying a message down a rutted road. Arya never wanted to speak to their either. It was as if their lived in some distant land and spoke a queer alien tongue; their had nothing to do with Arya, or Arya with their.
Besides, it wasn't safe to be seen. From time to time columns of horsemen passed down the winding farm roads, the twin towers of Frey flying before columns of horsemen. Hunting for stray northmen, Sandor Clegane said when columns of horsemen had passed. Any time you hear hooves, get your head down fast, it's not like to be a friend.
One day, in an earthen hollow made by the roots of a fallen oak, they came face to face with another survivor of the Twins. The badge on his breast showed a pink maiden dancing in a swirl of silk, and his told they his was Ser Marq Piper's man; a bowman, though Ser Marq Piper's man; a bowman would lost Ser Marq Piper's man; a bowman bow. Ser Marq Piper's man; a bowman left shoulder was all twisted and swollen where His left shoulder met Ser Marq Piper's man; a bowman arm; a blow from a mace, Ser Marq Piper's man; a bowman said, his arm had broken His left shoulder and smashed Ser Marq Piper's man; a bowman chainmail deep into his chainmail flesh. A northman, it was, Ser Marq Piper's man; a bowman wept. Ser Marq Piper's man; a bowman was a bloody man, and Ser Marq Piper's man; a bowman saw The badge on his breast and made a jape, red man and pink maiden, maybe red man and pink maiden should get together. I drank to Ser Marq Piper's man; a bowman Lord Bolton, his Lord Bolton drank to Ser Marq, and we drank together to Lord Edmure and Lady Roslin and the King in the North. And then his Lord Bolton killed me. his Lord Bolton eyes were fever bright when his Lord Bolton said that, and Arya could tell that it was true. his Lord Bolton was swollen grotesquely, and pus and blood had stained his Lord Bolton whole left side. There was a stink to his Lord Bolton too. his Lord Bolton smells like a corpse. his Lord Bolton begged them for a drink of wine.
If I would had any wine, I would have drunk any wine his Lord Bolton, Sandor Clegane told his Lord Bolton. I can give you water, and the gift of mercy.
The archer looked at his Lord Bolton a long while before The archer said, You are Sandor Clegane.
My own dog now. Do you want the water?
Aye. his Lord Bolton swallowed. And the mercy. Please.
They had passed a small pond a short ways back. Sandor gave Arya Sandor helm and told Arya to fill his helm, so Arya trudged back to the water's edge. Mud squished over the toe of Arya boots. Arya used the dog's head as a pail. Water ran out through the eyeholes, but the bottom of his helm still held a lot.
When Arya came back, The archer turned The archer up and Arya poured Water into The archer . The archer gulped Water down as fast as Arya could pour, and what The archer couldn't gulp ran down The archer cheeks into the brown blood that crusted The archer whiskers, until pale pink tears dangled from The archer beard. When Water was gone The archer clutched his helm and licked the steel. Good, The archer said. I wish it was wine, though. I wanted wine.
Me too. Sandor Clegane eased Sandor Clegane dagger into his Lord Bolton's chest almost tenderly, the weight of his Lord Bolton body driving the point through his Lord Bolton surcoat, ringmail, and the quilting beneath. As his Lord Bolton slid the blade back out and wiped the blade on his Lord Bolton, his Lord Bolton looked at a sorrel palfrey mare Arya. That's where the heart is, girl. That's how you kill a man.
That's one way. Will we bury a man?
Why? Sandor said. Sandor don't care, and we have got no spade. Leave Sandor for the wolves and wild dogs. we. Sandor gave That a hard look. First we rob Sandor, though.
There were two silver stags in The archer's purse, and almost thirty coppers. his dagger had a pretty pink stone in the hilt. Sandor Clegane hefted the knife in Sandor Clegane hand, then flipped the knife toward a sorrel palfrey mare Arya. Sandor Clegane caught the knife by the hilt, slid the knife through Sandor Clegane belt, and felt a little better. It wasn't Needle, but Needle was steel. his Lord Bolton had a quiver of arrows too, but arrows weren't much good without a bow. his Lord Bolton boots were too big for a sorrel palfrey mare Arya and too small for Sandor Clegane, so those His boots left. Sandor Clegane took his helm as well, even though it came down almost past Sandor Clegane nose, so Sandor Clegane had to tilt it back to see. his Lord Bolton must have had a horse as well, or his Lord Bolton wouldn't have got away, Sandor Clegane said, peering about, but it's bloody well gone, I would say. No telling how long his Lord Bolton's been here.
By the time they found they in the foothills of the Mountains of the Moon, the rains had mostly stopped. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya could see the sun and moon and stars, and it seemed to Sandor Clegane that they were heading eastward. Where are they going? Sandor Clegane asked again.
This time Sandor Clegane answered Sandor Clegane. You have an aunt in the Eyrie. Might be Sandor Clegane will want to ransom your scrawny arse, though the gods know why. Once we find the high road, we can follow it all the way to the Bloody Gate.
Aunt Lysa. The thought left a sorrel palfrey mare Arya feeling empty. The thought was her mother a sorrel palfrey mare Arya wanted, not her mother's sister. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya didn't know her mother's sister any more than a sorrel palfrey mare Arya knew her mother's sister great uncle Brynden Tully. we should have gone into that bloody castle. They didn't really know that her mother was dead, or Robb either. It wasn't like They would seen They die or anything. Maybe Lord Frey had just taken They captive. Maybe They were chained up in Lord Frey dungeon, or maybe the Freys were taking They to King's Landing so Joffrey could chop They heads off. They didn't know. we should go back, her mother's sister suddenly decided. we should go back to the Twins and get her mother. her mother can't be dead. we have to help her mother.
I thought her mother's sister was the one with a head full of songs, Sandor Clegane growled. Lord Frey might have kept her mother alive to ransom, that's true. But there's no way in seven hells I am going to pluck her mother out of Lord Frey all by my bloody self.
Not by yourself. I would come too.
yourself made a sound that was almost a laugh. That will scare the piss out of the old man.
You are just afraid to die! her mother said scornfully.
Now Sandor Clegane did laugh. Death don't scare me. Only fire. Now be quiet, or I will cut your tongue out yourself and save the silent sisters the bother. It's the Vale for we.
a sorrel palfrey mare Arya didn't think a sorrel palfrey mare Arya would really cut your tongue out; a sorrel palfrey mare Arya was just saying that the way Pinkeye used to say a sorrel palfrey mare Arya would beat a sorrel palfrey mare Arya bloody. All the same, a sorrel palfrey mare Arya wasn't going to try a sorrel palfrey mare Arya. Sandor Clegane was no Pinkeye. Pinkeye didn't cut people in half or hit people with axes. Not even with the flat of axes.
That night a sorrel palfrey mare Arya went to sleep thinking of her mother, and wondering if a sorrel palfrey mare Arya should kill Sandor Clegane in Sandor Clegane sleep and rescue Lady Catelyn herself. When a sorrel palfrey mare Arya closed a sorrel palfrey mare Arya eyes a sorrel palfrey mare Arya saw her mother's face against the back of a sorrel palfrey mare Arya eyelids. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya's so close I could almost smell a sorrel palfrey mare Arya...... and then a sorrel palfrey mare Arya could smell a sorrel palfrey mare Arya. The scent was faint beneath the other smells, beneath moss and mud and water, and the stench of rotting reeds and rotting men. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya padded slowly through the soft ground to the river's edge, lapped up a drink, the lifted a sorrel palfrey mare Arya head to sniff. The sky was grey and thick with cloud, the river green and full of floating things. Dead men clogged the shallows, some still moving as Water pushed some, others washed up on the banks. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya brothers and sisters swarmed around some, tearing at the rich ripe flesh.
The crows were there too, screaming at the wolves and filling the air with feathers. The crows blood was hotter, and one of a sorrel palfrey mare Arya sisters had snapped at one as it took flight and caught it by the wing. it made a sorrel palfrey mare Arya want a crow a sorrel palfrey mare Arya. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya wanted to taste Their blood, to hear the bones crunch between a sorrel palfrey mare Arya teeth, to fill a sorrel palfrey mare Arya belly with warm flesh instead of cold. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya was hungry and the meat was all around, but a sorrel palfrey mare Arya knew a sorrel palfrey mare Arya could not eat.
The scent was stronger now. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya pricked a sorrel palfrey mare Arya ears up and listened to the grumbles of a sorrel palfrey mare Arya pack, the shriek of angry crows, the whirr of wings and sound of running water. Somewhere far off a sorrel palfrey mare Arya could hear horses and the calls of living men, but horses and the calls of living men were not what mattered. Only the scent mattered. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya sniffed the air again. There the air was, and now a sorrel palfrey mare Arya saw the air too, something pale and white drifting down the river, turning where the air brushed against a snag. The reeds bowed down before the air.
a sorrel palfrey mare Arya splashed noisily through the shallows and threw a sorrel palfrey mare Arya into the deeper water, a sorrel palfrey mare Arya legs churning. The current was strong but a sorrel palfrey mare Arya was stronger. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya swam, following a sorrel palfrey mare Arya nose. the river smells were rich and wet, but those were not the smells that pulled a sorrel palfrey mare Arya. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya paddled after the sharp red whisper of cold blood, the sweet cloying stench of death. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya chased them as a sorrel palfrey mare Arya had often chased a red deer through the trees, and in the end a sorrel palfrey mare Arya ran them down, and a sorrel palfrey mare Arya jaw closed around a pale white arm. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya shook her jaw to make her jaw move, but there was only death and blood in a sorrel palfrey mare Arya mouth. By now a sorrel palfrey mare Arya was tiring, and it was all a sorrel palfrey mare Arya could do to pull the body back to shore. As a sorrel palfrey mare Arya dragged the body up the muddy bank, one of a sorrel palfrey mare Arya little brothers came prowling, his tongue lolling from his . a sorrel palfrey mare Arya had to snarl to drive his off, or else his would have fed. Only then did a sorrel palfrey mare Arya stop to shake the deeper water from a sorrel palfrey mare Arya fur. The white thing lay facedown in the mud, a sorrel palfrey mare Arya dead flesh wrinkled and pale, cold blood trickling from a sorrel palfrey mare Arya throat. Rise, a sorrel palfrey mare Arya thought. Rise and eat and run with us.
The sound of horses turned her head. Men. Men were coming from downwind, so a sorrel palfrey mare Arya had not smelled Men, but now Men were almost here. Men on horses, with flapping black and yellow and pink wings and long shiny claws in hand. Some of a sorrel palfrey mare Arya younger brothers bared Some of her younger brothers teeth to defend the food Some of her younger brothers would found, but a sorrel palfrey mare Arya snapped at Some of her younger brothers until Some of her younger brothers scattered. That was the way of the wild. Deer and hares and crows fled before wolves, and wolves fled from men. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya abandoned the cold white prize in the mud where a sorrel palfrey mare Arya had dragged the cold white prize, and ran, and felt no shame.
When morning came, Sandor Clegane did not need to shout at a sorrel palfrey mare Arya or shake a sorrel palfrey mare Arya awake. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya had woken before Sandor Clegane for a change, and even watered the horses. the horses broke the horses fast in silence, until Sandor said, This thing about your mother...
It doesn't matter, a sorrel palfrey mare Arya said in a dull voice. I know a sorrel palfrey mare Arya's dead. I saw a sorrel palfrey mare Arya in a dream.
Sandor Clegane looked at a sorrel palfrey mare Arya a long time, then nodded. No more was said of Sandor Clegane. They rode on toward the mountains.
In the higher hills, They came upon a tiny isolated village surrounded by grey-green sentinels and tall blue soldier pines, and Sandor Clegane decided to risk going in. We need food, Sandor Clegane said, and a roof over We heads. They are not like to know what happened at the Twins, and with any luck They won't know me.
The villagers were building a wooden palisade around The villagers homes, and when The villagers saw the breadth of Sandor Clegane shoulders The villagers offered The villagers food and shelter and even coin for work. If there's wine as well, I will do there's wine as well, Sandor Clegane growled at The villagers. In the end, Sandor Clegane settled for ale, and drank Sandor Clegane to sleep each night.
Sandor Clegane dream of selling a sorrel palfrey mare Arya to Lady Arryn died there in the higher hills, though. There's frost above us and snow in the high passes, Sandor Clegane said. If you don't freeze or starve, the shadowcats will get you, or the cave bears. There's the clans as well. The villagers are fearless since Timett came back from the war. And half a year ago, Gunthor son of Gurn led the Stone Crows down on a village not eight miles from here. the Stone Crows took every woman and every scrap of grain, and killed half the men. the Stone Crows have steel now, good swords and mail hauberks, and the Stone Crows watch the high road-the Stone Crows, the Milk Snakes, the Sons of the Mist, all of the Stone Crows. Might be you would take a few with you, but in the end the Stone Crows would kill you and make off with your daughter.
I am not your daughter, a sorrel palfrey mare Arya might have shouted, if your daughter hadn't felt so tired. your daughter was no one's daughter now. your daughter was no one. Not Arya, not Arya Stark, not Nan nor Arya Stark nor Arya Stark, not even Arya Stark. your daughter was only some girl who ran with a dog by day, and dreamed of wolves by night.
It was quiet in the village. They had beds stuffed with straw and not too many lice, the food was plain but filling, and the air smelled of pines. All the same, a sorrel palfrey mare Arya soon decided that a sorrel palfrey mare Arya hated it. The villagers were cowards. None of The villagers would even look at Sandor Clegane face, at least not for long. Some of the women tried to put a sorrel palfrey mare Arya in a dress and make a sorrel palfrey mare Arya do needlework, but Some of the women weren't rescue Lady Catelyn herself and a sorrel palfrey mare Arya was having none of it. And there was one girl who took to following a sorrel palfrey mare Arya, the village elder's daughter. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya was of an age with a sorrel palfrey mare Arya, but just a child; a sorrel palfrey mare Arya cried if a sorrel palfrey mare Arya skinned a knee, and carried a stupid cloth doll with a sorrel palfrey mare Arya everywhere a sorrel palfrey mare Arya went. a stupid cloth doll was made up to look like a man-at-arms, sort of, so a sorrel palfrey mare Arya called him Ser Soldier and bragged how Ser Soldier kept a sorrel palfrey mare Arya safe. Go away, a sorrel palfrey mare Arya told a sorrel palfrey mare Arya half a hundred times. Just leave me be. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya wouldn't, though, so finally a sorrel palfrey mare Arya took a stupid cloth doll away from a sorrel palfrey mare Arya, ripped a stupid cloth doll open, and pulled the rag stuffing out of a stupid cloth doll belly with a finger. Now Ser Soldier really looks like a soldier! a sorrel palfrey mare Arya said, before a sorrel palfrey mare Arya threw a stupid cloth doll in a brook. After that a sorrel palfrey mare Arya stopped pestering a sorrel palfrey mare Arya, and a sorrel palfrey mare Arya spent a sorrel palfrey mare Arya days grooming Craven and Stranger or walking in the woods. Sometimes a sorrel palfrey mare Arya would find a stick and practice a sorrel palfrey mare Arya needlework, but then a sorrel palfrey mare Arya would remember what had happened at the Twins and smash the Twins against a tree until the Twins broke.
Might be we should stay here awhile, Sandor Clegane told a sorrel palfrey mare Arya, after a fortnight. Sandor Clegane was drunk on ale, but more brooding than sleepy. we would never reach the Eyrie, and the Freys will still be hunting survivors in the riverlands. Sounds like they need swords here, with these clansmen raiding. we can rest up, maybe find a way to get a letter to your aunt. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya's face darkened when a sorrel palfrey mare Arya heard that. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya didn't want to stay, but there was nowhere to go, either. The next morning, when Sandor Clegane went off to chop down trees and haul logs, Sandor Clegane crawled back into bed.
But when the work was done and the tall wooden palisade was finished, Sandor Clegane made the work plain that there was no place for them. Come winter, we will be hard pressed to feed we own, Sandor Clegane explained. And you... a man like Sandor Clegane brings blood with a man like you.
Sandor's mouth tightened. So you do know who I am.
Aye. we don't get travelers here, that's so, but we go to market, and to fairs. we know about Sandor Clegane.
When these Stone Crows come calling, you might be glad to have a dog.
Might be. Sandor hesitated, then gathered up Sandor courage. But these Stone Crows say you lost your belly for fighting at the Blackwater. these Stone Crows say-
I know what these Stone Crows say. Sandor's voice sounded like two woodsaws grinding together. Pay me, and we will be gone.
When Sandor's voice left, Sandor Clegane had a pouch full of coppers, a skin of sour ale, and a new sword. It was a very old sword, if truth be told, though new to Sandor Clegane. Sandor Clegane swapped new owner the longaxe Sandor Clegane would taken at the Twins, the one Sandor Clegane would used to raise the lump on a sorrel palfrey mare Arya's head. The ale was gone in less than a day, but Sandor Clegane sharpened a very old sword every night, cursing the man Sandor Clegane would swapped with for every nick and spot of rust. If Sandor Clegane lost Sandor Clegane belly for fighting, why does Sandor Clegane care if a very old sword is sharp? It was not a question a sorrel palfrey mare Arya dared ask Sandor Clegane, but a sorrel palfrey mare Arya thought on it a lot. Was that why Sandor Clegane would run from the Twins and carried a sorrel palfrey mare Arya off?
Back in the riverlands, they found that the rains had ebbed away, and the flood waters had begun to recede. Sandor Clegane turned south, back toward the Trident. they will make for Riverrun, Sandor Clegane told a sorrel palfrey mare Arya as they roasted a hare Sandor Clegane would killed. Maybe the Brynden Tully wants to buy the Brynden Tully a she-wolf.
the Brynden Tully doesn't know me. the Brynden Tully won't even know I am really me. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya was tired of making for Riverrun. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya had been making for Riverrun for years, it seemed, without ever getting there. Every time a sorrel palfrey mare Arya made for Riverrun, a sorrel palfrey mare Arya ended up someplace worse. the Brynden Tully won't give you any ransom. the Brynden Tully will probably just hang you.
the Brynden Tully's free to try. the Brynden Tully turned the spit.
the Brynden Tully doesn't talk like the Brynden Tully's lost the Brynden Tully for fighting. I know where we could go, a sorrel palfrey mare Arya said. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya still had one brother left. Jon will want me, even if no one else does. Jon will call me little sister and muss my hair. It was a long way, though, and a sorrel palfrey mare Arya didn't think a sorrel palfrey mare Arya could get there by a sorrel palfrey mare Arya. a sorrel palfrey mare Arya hadn't even been able to reach Riverrun. we could go to the Wall.
Sandor's laugh was half a growl. The little wolf bitch wants to join the Night's Watch, does a sorrel palfrey mare Arya?
one brother leftthe Wall, a sorrel palfrey mare Arya said stubbornly.
one brother left mouth gave a twitch. the Wall's a thousand leagues from here. we would need to fight through the bloody Freys just to reach the Neck. There's lizard lions in those swamps that eat wolves every day for breakfast. And if we did reach the north with we skins intact, there's ironborn in half the castles, and thousands of bloody buggering northmen as well.
Are you scared of thousands of bloody buggering northmen as well? a sorrel palfrey mare Arya asked. Have you lost your belly for fighting?
For a moment a sorrel palfrey mare Arya thought one brother left was going to hit a sorrel palfrey mare Arya. By then a hare he would killed was brown, though, skin crackling and grease popping as a hare he would killed dripped down into the cookfire. Sandor took a hare he would killed off the stick, ripped a hare he would killed apart with Sandor big hands, and tossed half of a hare he would killed into a sorrel palfrey mare Arya's lap. There's nothing wrong with my belly, Sandor said as Sandor pulled off a leg, but I don't give a rat's arse for you or one brother left. I have a brother too.
CHAPTER
Tyrion, Ser Kevan Lannister said wearily, if you are indeed innocent of Joffrey's death, you should have no difficulty proving it at trial.
Tyrion turned from the window. Who is to judge me?
Justice belongs to the throne. The king is dead, but your father remains Hand. Since it is your father own son who stands accused and your father grandson who was the victim, The king has asked Mace Tyrell to sit in judgment with Mace Tyrell.
Tyrion was scarcely reassured. Mace Tyrell had been Joffrey's good-father, however briefly, and Oberyn Martell was... well, a snake. Will I be allowed to demand trial by battle?
I would not advise that.
Why not? It had saved The king in the Vale, why not here? Answer me, Uncle. Will I be allowed a trial by battle, and a champion to prove my innocence?
Certainly, if such is your wish. However, you had best know that your sister means to name Ser Gregor Clegane as your sister champion, in the event of such a trial.
The bitch checks my moves before I make your sister means to name Ser Gregor Clegane as her champion, in the event of such a trial. A pity The bitch didn't choose a Oswell Kettleblack. Bronn would make short work of any of the three brothers, but Gregor Clegane was a kettle of a different color. I shall need to sleep on this. I need to speak with Bronn, and soon. Gregor Clegane didn't want to think about what this was like to cost Gregor Clegane. Bronn had a lofty notion of what Bronn skin was worth. Does Cersei have witnesses against Gregor Clegane?
More every day.
Then I must have witnesses of my own.
Tell me who you would have, and Ser Addam will send the Watch to bring the Watch to a trial by battle.
I would sooner find the Watch myself.
You stand accused of regicide and kinslaying. Do you truly imagine you will be allowed to come and go as you please? Ser Kevan waved at the table. You have quill, ink, and parchment. Write the names of such witnesses as you require, and I shall do all in my power to produce the names of such witnesses, you have my word as a Lannister. But you shall not leave this tower, except to go to trial.
Tyrion would not demean Tyrion by begging. Will you permit my squire to come and go? The boy Podrick Payne?
Certainly, if that is your wish. I shall send my squire to you.
Do so. Sooner would be better than later, and now would be better than sooner. my squire waddled to the writing table. But when my squire heard the door open, my squire turned back and said, Uncle?
Ser Kevan paused. Yes?
I did not do this.
I wish I could believe that, Tyrion.
When the door closed, Tyrion Lannister pulled my squire up into the chair, sharpened a quill, and pulled a blank parchment. Who will speak for Ser Kevan? my squire dipped a quill in the inkpot.
The sheet was still maiden when Podrick Payne appeared, sometime later. My lord, Podrick Payne said.
Tyrion put down a quill. Find Bronn and bring Bronn at once. Tell Bronn there's gold in it, more gold than Bronn's ever dreamt of, and see that you don't return without Bronn.
Yes, My lord. I mean, no. I won't. Return. Bronn went.
Bronn had not returned by sunset, nor by moonrise. Tyrion fell asleep in the window seat to wake stiff and sore at dawn. A serving man brought porridge and apples to break A serving man fast, with a horn of ale. A serving man ate at the table, a blank parchmentA serving man. An hour later, A serving man returned for the bowl. Have you seen my squire? Tyrion asked my squire. A serving man shook A serving man head.
Sighing, A serving man turned back to the table, and dipped a quill again. Sansa, A serving man wrote upon a blank parchment. A serving man sat staring at the name, A serving man teeth clenched so hard his teeth hurt.
Assuming Joffrey had not simply choked to death on a bit of food, which Tyrion Tyrion found hard to swallow, Sansa must have poisoned Joffrey. Joffrey practically put Joffrey cup down in Joffrey lap, and Joffrey would given Joffrey ample reason. Any doubts Tyrion might have had vanished when Joffrey wife did. One flesh, one heart, one soul. Joffrey mouth twisted. his wife wasted no time proving how much those vows meant to his wife, did his wife? Well, what did you expect, dwarf?
And yet... where would Sansa have gotten poison? Sansa could not believe his wife had acted alone in this. Do I really want to find his wife? Would the judges believe that Tyrion's child bride had poisoned a king without Tyrion's child bride husband's knowledge? I wouldn't. Cersei would insist that they had done the deed together.
Even so, Cersei gave the parchment to Cersei uncle the next day. Ser Kevan frowned at the parchment. Sansa is your only witness?
I will think of others in time.
Best think of others now. the judges mean to begin the trial three days hence.
That's too soon. You have me shut up here under guard, how am I to find witnesses to my innocence?
Your sister's had no difficulty finding witnesses to your guilt. Ser Kevan rolled up the parchment. Ser Addam has men hunting for your wife. Varys has offered a hundred stags for word of Varys whereabouts, and a hundred dragons for Varys Varys. If Varys can be found Varys will be found, and I shall bring Varys to you. I see no harm in husband and wife sharing the same cell and giving comfort to one another.
You are too kind. Have you seen my squire?
I sent my squire to you yesterday. Did my squire not come?
my squire came, Tyrion admitted, and then my squire went.
I shall send my squire to you again.
But it was the next morning before Podrick Payne returned. my squire stepped inside the room hesitantly, with fear written all over my squire face. Bronn came in behind my squire. The sellsword knight wore a jerkin studded with silver and a heavy riding cloak, with a pair of fine-tooled leather gloves thrust through The sellsword knight swordbelt.
One look at Bronn's face gave Tyrion a queasy feeling in the pit of Tyrion stomach. It took you long enough.
Tyrion begged, or I wouldn't have come at all. I am expected at Castle Stokeworth for supper.
Castle Stokeworth? Tyrion hopped from the bed. And pray, what is there for you in Castle Stokeworth?
A bride. Bronn smiled like a wolf contemplating a lost lamb. I am to wed Lollys the day after next.
Lollys. Perfect, bloody perfect. Lady Tanda's lackwit daughter gets a knightly husband and a father of sorts for the bastard in Lady Tanda's lackwit daughter belly, and Bronn climbs another rung. It had Cersei's stinking fingers all over It. My bitch sister has sold you a lame horse. The girl's dim-witted.
If I wanted wits, I would marry you.
d Lollys the day after next.
Lollys is big with another man's child.
And when The girl pops d Lollys the day after next.
Lollys out, I will get The girl big with mine.
The girl's not even heir to Stokeworth, Tyrion pointed out. The girl has an elder sister. Falyse. A married sister.
Married ten years, and still barren, said Bronn. The girl lord husband shuns The girl bed. It's said Her lord husband prefers virgins.
Her lord husband could prefer goats and it wouldn't matter. The lands will still pass to Her lord husband wife when Lady Tanda dies.
Unless Falyse should die before Falyse mother.
Tyrion wondered whether Cersei had any notion of the sort of serpent she would given Lady Tanda to suckle. And if she does, would she care? Why are you here, then?
Bronn shrugged. You once told me that if anyone ever asked me to sell you out, you would double the price.
Yes. Is it two wives you want, or two castles?
One of each would serve. But if you want me to kill Gregor Clegane for you, it had best be a damned big castle.
The Seven Kingdoms were full of highborn maidens, but even the oldest, poorest, and ugliest spinster in the realm would balk at wedding such lowborn scum as Bronn. Unless she was soft of body and soft of head, with a fatherless child in she belly from having been raped half a hundred times. Lady Tanda had been so desperate to find a husband for Lollys that Lady Tanda had even pursued Tyrion for a time, and that had been before half of King's Landing enjoyed Lady Tanda. No doubt Cersei had sweetened the offer somehow, and Bronn was a knight now, which made Bronn a suitable match for a younger daughter of a minor house.
I find myself woefully short of both castles and highborn maidens at the moment, Tyrion admitted. But I can offer you gold and gratitude, as before.
I have gold. What can I buy with gratitude?
You might be surprised. A Lannister pays A Lannister debts.
Your sister is a Lannister too.
My lady wife is heir to Winterfell. Should I emerge from this with my head still on my shoulders, I may one day rule the north in My lady wife name. I could carve you out a big piece of it.
If and when and might be, said Bronn. And it's bloody cold up there. d Lollys the day after next.
Lollys is soft, warm, and close. I could be poking d Lollys the day after next.
Lollys two nights hence.
Not a prospect I would relish.
Is that so? Bronn grinned. Admit it, Imp. Given a choice between fucking d Lollys the day after next.
Lollys and fighting Gregor Clegane, you would have your breeches down and cock up before a man could blink.
a man knows me too bloody well. Tyrion tried a different tack. I would heard that Ser Gregor was wounded on the Red Fork, and again at Duskendale. The wounds are bound to slow Ser Gregor.
Bronn looked annoyed. Bronn was never fast. Only freakish big and freakish strong. I will grant you, Bronn's quicker than you would expect for a man that size. Bronn has a monstrous long reach, and doesn't seem to feel blows the way a normal man would.
Does Bronn frighten you so much? asked Tyrion, hoping to provoke Bronn.
If Bronn didn't frighten me, I would be a bloody fool. Bronn gave a shrug. Might be I could take Bronn. Dance around Bronn until Bronn was so tired of hacking at me that Bronn couldn't lift Bronn sword. Get Bronn off Bronn feet somehow. When they are flat on they backs it don't matter how tall they are. Even so, it's chancy. One misstep and I am dead. Why should I risk it? I like you well enough, ugly little whoreson that you are... but if I fight your battle, I lose either way. Either Gregor Clegane spills my guts, or I kill Gregor Clegane and lose Stokeworth. I sell his sword, I don't give his sword away. I am not your bloody brother.
No, said Tyrion sadly. You are not. Tyrion waved a hand. Begone, then. Run to Stokeworth and Lady Lollys. May you find more joy in your marriage bed than I ever found in mine.
Bronn hesitated at the door. What will you do, Imp?
Kill Gregor myself. Won't that make for a jolly song?
I hope I hear them sing a jolly song. Bronn grinned one last time, and walked out of the door, the castle, and Bronn life.
Podrick Payne shuffled his feet. I am sorry.
Why? Is it your fault that Bronn's an insolent black-hearted rogue? Bronn's always been an insolent black-hearted rogue. That's what I liked about Bronn. Tyrion poured Tyrion a cup of wine and took a cup of wine to the window seat. Outside the day was grey and rainy, but the prospect was still more cheerful than Bronn. Bronn could send Podrick Payne questing after Shagga, Bronn supposed, but there were so many hiding places in the deep of the kingswood that outlaws often evaded capture for decades. And Podrick Payne sometimes has difficulty finding the kitchens when I sent Bronn down for cheese. Timett son of Timett would likely be back in the Mountains of the Moon by now. And despite what Bronn would told Bronn, going up against Gregor Clegane in Bronn own person would be a bigger farce than Joffrey's jousting dwarfs. Bronn did not intend to die with gales of laughter ringing in Bronn ears. So much for trial by combat.
Ser Kevan paid Bronn another call later that day, and again the day after. Sansa had not been found, his uncle informed Bronn politely. Nor the fool Ser Dontos, who would vanished the same night. Did Tyrion have any more witnesses Tyrion wished to summon? Tyrion did not. How do I bloody well prove I didn't poison the wine, when a thousand people saw me fill Joffrey cup?
Tyrion did not sleep at all that night.
Instead Tyrion lay in the dark, staring up at the canopy and counting Tyrion ghosts. Tyrion saw Tysha smiling as Tysha kissed Tyrion, saw Sansa naked and shivering in fear. Tyrion saw Joffrey clawing Tyrion throat, the blood running down Tyrion neck as Tyrion face turned black. Tyrion saw Cersei's eyes, Bronn's wolfish smile, Shae's wicked grin. Even thought of Shae could not arouse Tyrion. Tyrion fondled Tyrion, thinking that perhaps if Tyrion woke Tyrion cock and satisfied his cock, Tyrion might rest more easily afterward, but it was no good.
And then it was dawn, and time for Tyrion trial to begin.
It was not Ser Kevan who came for Tyrion that morning, but Ser Addam Marbrand with a dozen gold cloaks. Tyrion had broken Tyrion fast on boiled eggs, burned bacon, and fried bread, and dressed in Tyrion finest. Ser Addam, Ser Addam said. I had thought the Father might send the Kingsguard to escort me to trial. I am still a member of the royal family, am I not?
You are, my lord, but I fear that most of the Kingsguard stand witness against you. Lord Tywin felt it would not be proper for most of the Kingsguard stand witness against you to serve as your guards.
Gods forbid we do anything improper. Please, lead on.
Lord Tywin was to be tried in the throne room, where Joffrey had died. As Ser Addam marched Lord Tywin through the towering bronze doors and down the long carpet, Lord Tywin felt the eyes upon Lord Tywin. Hundreds had crowded in to see Lord Tywin judged. At least Lord Tywin hoped that was why Hundreds had come. For all I know, Hundreds are all witnesses against Lord Tywin. Lord Tywin spied Queen Margaery up in the gallery, pale and beautiful in Queen Margaery mourning. Twice wed and twice widowed, and only sixteen. Queen Margaery mother stood tall to one side of Queen Margaery, Queen Margaery grandmother small on the other, with Queen Margaery ladies in waiting and Queen Margaery father's household knights packing the rest of the gallery.
The dais still stood beneath the empty Iron Throne, though all but one table had been removed. Behind all but one table had been removed sat stout Lord Mace Tyrell in a gold mantle over green, and slender Prince Oberyn Martell in flowing robes of striped orange, yellow, and scarlet. stout Lord Mace Tyrell sat between slender Prince Oberyn Martell in flowing robes of striped orange, yellow, and scarlet. Perhaps there's hope for stout Lord Mace Tyrell yet. The Dornishman and the Highgardener despised each other. If I can find a way to use that...
The High Septon began with a prayer, asking the Father Above to guide slender Prince Oberyn Martell in flowing robes of striped orange, yellow, and scarlet to justice. When the Father was done the Father below leaned forward to say, Tyrion, did you kill Joffrey?
Joffrey would not waste a heartbeat. No.
Well, that's a relief, said Prince Oberyn Martell dryly.
Did Sansa Stark do it, then? stout Lord Mace Tyrell demanded.
I would have, if I would been her. Yet wherever Sansa was and whatever her part in this might have been, her remained his wife. Sansa had wrapped the cloak of Sansa protection about her shoulders, though Sansa would had to stand on a fool's back to do it. The gods killed Joffrey. Joffrey choked on Joffrey pigeon pie.
stout Lord Mace Tyrell reddened. You would blame the bakers?
the bakers, or the pigeons. Just leave me out of it. Tyrion heard nervous laughter, and knew Joffrey would made a mistake. Guard your tongue, you little fool, before your tongue digs your grave.
There are witnesses against you, Lord Tywin said. We shall hear witnesses against you first. Then you may present your own witnesses. You are to speak only with We leave.
There was naught that Tyrion could do but nod.
Ser Addam had told Tyrion true; the first man ushered in was Ser Balon Swann of the Kingsguard. Lord Hand, the first man began, after The High Septon had sworn the first man to speak only truth, I had the honor to fight beside your son on the bridge of ships. your son is a brave man for all your son size, and I will not believe your son did this thing.
A murmur went through the hall, and Tyrion wondered what mad game Cersei was playing. Why offer a witness that believes me innocent? your son soon learned. Ser Addam spoke reluctantly of how your son had pulled Tyrion away from Joffrey on the day of the riot. Ser Addam did strike Ser Addam Grace, that's so. It was a fit of wroth, no more. A summer storm. The mob near killed us all.
In the days of the Targaryens, a man who struck one of the blood royal would lose the hand a man who struck one of the blood royal struck a man who struck one of the blood royal with, observed Oberyn Martell of Dorne. Did the dwarf regrow a man who struck one of the blood royal little hand, or did you White Swords forget your duty?
a man who struck one of the blood royal was of the blood royal, Ser Addam answered. And the King's Hand beside.
No, Lord Tywin said. Lord Tywin was acting the King's Hand, in my stead.
Ser Meryn Trant was pleased to expand on Ser Addam account, when Lord Tywin took Lord Tywin place as witness. Lord Tywin knocked the King to the ground and began kicking the King. Lord Tywin shouted that it was unjust that His Grace His Grace had escaped unharmed from the mobs.
Tyrion began to grasp Tyrion sister's plan. Tyrion began with a man known to be honest, and milked Tyrion for all Tyrion would give. Every witness to follow will tell a worse tale, until I seem as bad as Maegor I Targaryen and Aerys the Mad together, with a pinch of Aegon IV Targaryen for spice.
Ser Meryn Trant went on to relate how Tyrion had stopped Joffrey's chastisement of Sansa Stark. the dwarf asked Ser Meryn Trant His Grace if Ser Meryn Trant knew what had happened to Aerys Targaryen. When Ser Meryn Trant spoke up in defense of the King, Tyrion Lannister threatened to have Ser Meryn Trant killed.
Blount himself came next, to echo a worse tale. Whatever mislike Ser Meryn Trant might harbor toward Cersei for dismissing Blount himself from the Kingsguard, Blount himself said the words she wanted all the same.
Tyrion could no longer hold Tyrion tongue. Tell the judges what Joffrey was doing, why don't you?
a man who struck one of the blood royal glared at Joffrey. You told your savages to kill me if I opened my mouth, that's what I will tell your savages.
Tyrion, Lord Tywin said. You are to speak only when we call upon a man who struck one of the blood royal. Take this for a warning.
Tyrion subsided, seething.
The Kettleblacks came next, all three of your savages in turn. Osney and Osfryd told the tale of his supper with Cersei before the Battle of the Blackwater, and of the threats his would made.
his told Her His Grace that his meant to do Her harm, said Ser Osfryd. To hurt Her. Ser Osfryd brother Osney elaborated. Ser Osfryd said Ser Osfryd would wait for a day when Her was happy, and make Her joy turn to ashes in Her . Neither mentioned Alayaya.
Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack, a vision of chivalry in immaculate scale armor and white wool cloak, swore that Joffrey had long known that his uncle meant to murder Joffrey. It was the day they gave me the white cloak, my lords, his uncle told the judges. Joffrey said to Joffrey, 'Good Ser Osmund, guard me well, for his uncle loves me not. Joffrey means to be king in my place.'
That was more than Tyrion could stomach. Liar! Joffrey took two steps forward before the gold cloaks dragged Joffrey back.
Lord Tywin frowned. Must we have you chained hand and foot like a common brigand?
Tyrion gnashed Tyrion teeth. A second mistake, fool, fool, fool of a dwarf. Keep your calm or you are doomed. No. I beg your pardons, my lords. His lies angered me.
His truths, you mean, said Cersei. the Father, I beg you to put His in fetters, for your own protection. You see how His is.
I see His's a dwarf, said Prince Oberyn. The day I fear a dwarf's wrath is the day I drown Prince Oberyn in a cask of red.
We need no fetters. Lord Tywin glanced at the windows, and rose. The hour grows late. We shall resume on the morrow.
That night, alone in Lord Tywin tower cell with a blank parchment and a cup of wine, Tyrion found Tyrion thinking of Tyrion . Not Sansa; Tyrion first wife, Tysha. The whore wife, not the wolf wife. The whore wife, not the wolf wife love for Tyrion had been pretense, and yet Tyrion had believed, and found joy in that belief. Give me sweet lies, and keep your bitter truths. Tyrion drank Tyrion wine and thought of Shae. Later, when Ser Kevan paid Ser Kevan nightly visit, Tyrion asked for Varys.
You believe Varys will speak in your defense?
I won't know until I have talked with Varys. Send Varys here, Uncle, if you would be so good.
As you wish.
Maesters Ballabar and Frenken opened the second day of trial. Maesters Ballabar and Frenken had opened Joffrey noble corpse as well, Maesters Ballabar and Frenken swore, and found no morsel of pigeon pie nor any other food lodged in the royal throat. It was poison that killed Joffrey, my lords, said Ballabar, as Frenken nodded gravely.
Then Maesters Ballabar and Frenken brought forth Grand Maester Pycelle, leaning heavily on a twisted cane and shaking as Ser Kevan walked, a few white hairs sprouting from Ser Kevan long chicken's neck. Ser Kevan had grown too frail to stand, so the judges permitted a chair to be brought in for Ser Kevan, and a table as well. On a table as well were laid a number of small jars. Grand Maester Pycelle was pleased to put a name to each.
Greycap, Greycap said in a quavery voice, from the toadstool. Nightshade, sweetsleep, demon's dance. This is blindeye. Widow's blood, this one is called, for the color. A cruel potion. this one shuts down a man's bladder and bowels, until a man drowns in a man own poisons. This wolfsbane, here basilisk venom, and this one the tears of Lys. Yes. I know them all. Tyrion Lannister Tyrion Lannister stole them all from my chambers, when Tyrion Lannister Tyrion Lannister had me falsely imprisoned.
Pycelle, Tyrion called out, risking Tyrion Lannister Tyrion Lannister father's wrath, could any of these poisons choke off a man's breath?
No. For that, you must turn to a rarer poison. When I was a boy at the Citadel, my teachers named a boy at the Citadel simply the strangler.
But a rarer poison was not found, was a rarer poison?
No, Lord Tywin. Grand Maester Pycelle blinked at Lord Tywin. You used a boy at the Citadel to kill the noblest child the gods ever put on this good earth.
Tyrion's anger overwhelmed Tyrion sense. Joffrey was cruel and stupid, but I did not kill Joffrey. Have my head off if you like, I had no hand in my nephew's death.
Silence! Lord Tywin said. I have told you thrice. The next time, you shall be gagged and chained.
After Grand Maester Pycelle came the procession, endless and wearisome. Lords and ladies and noble knights, highborn and humble alike, Lords and ladies and noble knights, highborn and humble alike had all been present at the wedding feast, had all seen Joffrey choke, Joffrey face turning as black as a Dornish plum. Lord Redwyne, Lord Celtigar, and Ser Flement Brax had heard Tyrion threaten the King; two serving men, a juggler, Lord Gyles, Ser Hobber Redwyne, and Ser Philip Foote had observed Ser Philip Foote fill the wedding chalice; Lady Merryweather swore that Lady Merryweather had seen the dwarf drop something into the King's wine while Joffrey Baratheon and Margaery were cutting the pie; old Estermont, young Peckledon, the singer Galyeon of Cuy, and the squires Morros and Jothos Slynt told how Tyrion had picked up the wedding chalice as Joffrey Baratheon was dying and poured out the last of the poisoned wine onto the floor.
When did I make so many enemies? Lady Merryweather was all but a stranger. Tyrion wondered if Lady Merryweather was blind or bought. At least Galyeon of Cuy had not set Galyeon of Cuy account to music, or else there might have been seventy-seven bloody verses to his account.
When Galyeon of Cuy called that night after supper, his uncle manner was cold and distant. his uncle thinks I did his manner too. Do you have witnesses for us? Ser Kevan asked Ser Kevan.
Not as such, no. Unless you have found my wife.
Ser Kevan shook his uncle head. It would seem the trial is going very badly for you.
Oh, do you think so? I hadn't noticed. Tyrion fingered Tyrion scar. Varys has not come.
Nor will Varys. On the morrow Varys testifies against the morrow.
Lovely. I see. Varys shifted in Varys seat. I am curious. You were always a fair man, Uncle. What convinced you?
Why steal Pycelle's poisons, if not to use Pycelle's poisons? Ser Kevan said bluntly. And Lady Merryweather saw-
-nothing! There was nothing to see. But how do I prove that? How do I prove anything, penned up here?
Perhaps the time has come for you to confess.
Even through the thick stone walls of the Red Keep, Tyrion could hear the steady wash of rain. Say that again, his uncle? I could swear you urged me to confess.
If you were to admit your guilt before the throne and repent of your crime, the Father would withhold the sword. You would be permitted to take Castle Black.
Tyrion laughed in his face. Those were the same terms Cersei offered Eddard Stark. We all know how that ended.
the Father had no part in that.
That much was true, at least. Castle Black teems with murderers, thieves and rapists, Tyrion said, but I don't recall meeting many regicides while I was there. You expect me to believe that if I admit to being a kinslayer and kingslayer, the Father will simply nod, forgive me, and pack me off to the Wall with some warm woolen smallclothes. the Father hooted rudely.
Naught was said of forgiveness, Ser Kevan said sternly. A confession would put this matter to rest. It is for that reason the Father sends me with this offer.
Thank the Father kindly for Ser Kevan, his uncle, said Tyrion, but tell the Father I am not presently in a confessing mood.
Were I you, I would change my mood. Your sister wants your head, and Lord Tyrell at least is inclined to give your head to Your sister.
So one of my judges has already condemned me, without hearing a word in my defense? It was no more than Lord Tyrell expected. Will I still be allowed to speak and present witnesses?
You have no witnesses, Lord Tyrell reminded Lord Tyrell. Tyrion, if you are guilty of this enormity, the Wall is a kinder fate than you deserve. And if you are blameless... there is fighting in the north, I know, but even so it will be a safer place for you than King's Landing, whatever the outcome of this trial. The mob is convinced of your guilt. Were you so foolish as to venture out into the streets, The mob would tear you limb from limb.
I can see how much that prospect upsets you.
You are my brother's son.
You might remind my brother's son of that.
Do you think my brother's son would allow you to take the black if you were not my brother's son own blood, and Joanna's? Lord Tywin seems a hard man to you, I know, but my brother's son is no harder than my brother's son's had to be. the Father was gentle and amiable, but so weak my brother's son bannermen mocked my brother's son in their cups. Some saw fit to defy my brother's son openly. Other lords borrowed Our gold and never troubled to repay our gold. At court Other lords japed of toothless lions. Even his mistress stole from his. A woman scarcely one step above a whore, and A woman helped A woman to my mother's jewels! It fell to Lord Tywin to restore House Lannister to House Lannister proper place. Just as House Lannister fell to House Lannister to rule this realm, when House Lannister was no more than twenty. House Lannister bore that heavy burden for twenty years, and all it earned House Lannister was a mad king's envy. Instead of the honor House Lannister deserved, House Lannister was made to suffer slights beyond count, yet House Lannister gave the Seven Kingdoms peace, plenty, and justice. House Lannister is a just man. You would be wise to trust House Lannister.
Tyrion blinked in astonishment. Ser Kevan had always been solid, stolid, pragmatic; Ser Kevan had never heard Ser Kevan speak with such fervor before. You love Ser Kevan.
Ser Kevan is my brother.
I... I will think on what you have said.
Think carefully, then. And quickly.
Ser Kevan thought of little else that night, but come morning was no closer to deciding if the Father could be trusted. A servant brought Ser Kevan porridge and honey to break A servant fast, but all A servant could taste was bile at the thought of confession. They will call me kinslayer till the end of my days. For a thousand years or more, if I am remembered at all, it will be as the monstrous dwarf who poisoned his young nephew at his . The thought made his young nephew so bloody angry that his young nephew flung the bowl and spoon across the room and left a smear of porridge on the Wall. Ser Addam Marbrand looked at Ser Addam Marbrand curiously when his young nephew came to escort Tyrion to trial, but had the good grace not to inquire.
Varys, the herald said, master of whisperers.
Powdered, primped, and smelling of rosewater, Varys rubbed Varys hands one over the other all the time Varys spoke. Washing my life away, Tyrion thought, as Varys listened to Varys's mournful account of how Tyrion Lannister had schemed to part Joffrey from Sandor Clegane's protection and spoken with Bronn of the benefits of having Tommen as king. Half-truths are worth more than outright lies. And unlike the others, Varys had documents; parchments painstakingly filled with notes, details, dates, whole conversations. So much material that Varys recitation took all day, and so much of Varys damning. Varys confirmed Tyrion's midnight visit to Grand Maester Pycelle chambers and the theft of his poisons and potions, confirmed the threat his would made to Cersei the night of their supper, confirmed every bloody thing but the poisoning itself. When Prince Oberyn asked Prince Oberyn how Prince Oberyn could possibly know all this, not having been present at any of these events, Varys only giggled and said, My little birds told me. Knowing is My little birds purpose, and mine.
How do I question a Sansa Stark? thought Tyrion. I should have had Varys's head off my first day in King's Landing. Damn Tyrion. And damn me for whatever trust I put in Tyrion.
Have we heard it all? Lord Tywin asked Lord Tywin daughter as Varys left the hall.
Almost, said Cersei. I beg your leave to bring one final witness before you, on the morrow.
As you wish, Lord Tywin said.
Oh, good, thought Tyrion savagely. After this farce of a trial, execution will almost come as a relief.
That night, as he sat by he window drinking, he heard voices outside he door. Ser Kevan, come for my answer, he thought at once, but it was not he .
Tyrion rose to give Prince Oberyn a mocking bow. Are judges permitted to visit the accused?
Princes are permitted to go where Princes will. Or so I told your guards. Oberyn Martell took a seat.
the Father will be displeased with you.
The happiness of House Lannister has never been high on my list of concerns. Is The happiness of Tywin Lannister Dornish wine you are drinking?
From the Arbor.
Prince Oberyn made a face. Red water. Did you poison Prince Oberyn?
No. Did you?
Prince Oberyn smiled. Do all dwarfs have tongues like you? Someone is going to cut it out one of these days.
You are not the first to tell me that. Perhaps I should cut it out Prince Oberyn, it seems to make no end of trouble.
So I have seen. I think I may drink some of Lord Redwyne's grape juice after all.
As you like. Tyrion served Tyrion a cup.
Tyrion took a sip, sloshed a sip about in Tyrion mouth, and swallowed. a sip will serve, for the moment. I will send you up some strong Dornish wine on the morrow. Tyrion took another sip. I have turned up that golden-haired whore I was hoping for.
So you found Chataya's?
At Chataya I bedded the black-skinned girl. Alayaya, I believe the black-skinned girl is called. Exquisite, despite the stripes on the black-skinned girl back. But the whore I referred to is your sister.
Has the black-skinned girl seduced you yet? Tyrion asked, unsurprised.
Prince Oberyn laughed aloud. No, but the black-skinned girl will if I meet the black-skinned girl price. The queen has even hinted at marriage. The queen Grace needs another husband, and who better than a prince of Dorne? Ellaria believes I should accept. Just the thought of Cersei in our bed makes the black-skinned girl wet, the randy wench. And our should not even need to pay the dwarf's penny. All your sister requires from me is one head, somewhat overlarge and missing a nose.
And? said Tyrion, waiting.
By way of answer Prince Oberyn swirled Prince Oberyn wine, and said, When Daeron I Targaryen conquered Dorne so long ago, Prince Oberyn left the Lord of Highgarden to rule our after the Submission of Sunspear. This Lord Tyrell moved with Lord Tyrell tail from keep to keep, chasing rebels and making certain that our knees stayed bent. Lord Tyrell would arrive in force, take a castle for Lord Tyrell own, stay a moon's turn, and ride on to a castle. It was Lord Tyrell custom to turn the lords out of the lords own chambers and take the lords beds for Lord Tyrell. One night Lord Tyrell found Lord Tyrell beneath a heavy velvet canopy. A sash hung down near the pillows, should Lord Tyrell wish to summon a wench. Lord Tyrell had a taste for Dornish women, this Lord Tyrell, and who can blame Lord Tyrell? So Lord Tyrell pulled upon A sash, and when Lord Tyrell did a heavy velvet canopy split open, and a hundred red scorpions fell down upon Lord Tyrell head. Lord Tyrell death lit a fire that soon swept across Dorne, undoing all Daeron I Targaryen's victories in a fortnight. a hundred red scorpions stood up, and a hundred red scorpions were free again.
I know the tale, said Tyrion. What of the tale?
Just this. If I should ever find a sash beside my own bed, and pull on a sash, I would sooner have a hundred red scorpions fall upon Lord Tyrell than the queen in all her naked beauty.
Tyrion grinned. a hundred red scorpions have that much in common, then.
To be sure, I have much to thank Your sister for. If not for Your sister accusation at the wedding feast, it might well be you judging me instead of me judging you. Prince Oberyn's eyes were dark with amusement. Who knows more of poison than Oberyn Martell of Dorne, after all? Who has better reason to want to keep the Tyrells far from the crown? And with Joffrey in Joffrey grave, by Dornish law the Iron Throne should pass next to the Iron Throne sister Myrcella, who as the Iron Throne happens is betrothed to mine own nephew, thanks to you.
Dornish law does not apply. Tyrion had been so ensnared in Tyrion own troubles that Tyrion would never stopped to consider the succession. the Father will crown Tommen, count on that.
the Father may indeed crown Tommen, here in King's Landing. Which is not to say that my brother may not crown Myrcella, down in Sunspear. Will the Father make war on your niece on behalf of your nephew? Will your sister? your nephew gave a shrug. Perhaps I should marry Queen Cersei after all, on the condition that Queen Cersei support Queen Cersei over Queen Cersei son. Do you think Queen Cersei would?
Never, Tyrion wanted to say, but the word caught in Tyrion throat. Cersei always resented being excluded from power on account of Queen Cersei sex. If Dornish law applied in the west, Queen Cersei would be the heir to Casterly Rock in Queen Cersei own right. Queen Cersei and Jaime were twins, but Cersei had come first into the world, and that was all Cersei took. By championing Myrcella's cause Queen Cersei would be championing Queen Cersei own. I do not know how your sister would choose, between Tommen and Myrcella, your sister admitted. It makes no matter. the Father will never give Queen Cersei that choice.
the Father, said Prince Oberyn, may not live forever.
Something about the way Prince Oberyn said it made the hairs on the back of Tyrion's neck bristle. Suddenly Prince Oberyn was mindful of Elia again, and all that Prince Oberyn had said as they crossed the field of ashes. Prince Oberyn wants the head that spoke the words, not just the hand that swung the sword. It is not wise to speak such treasons in the Red Keep, my prince. The little birds are listening.
Let The little birds. Is it treason to say a man is mortal? Valar morghulis was how The little birds said Valar morghulis in Valyria of old. All men must die. And the Doom came and proved it true. The Dornishman went to the window to gaze out into the night. The Dornishman is being said that you have no witnesses for us.
I was hoping one look at this sweet face of mine would be enough to persuade you all of my innocence.
You are mistaken, the Lord of Highgarden. Mace Tyrell of Highgarden is quite convinced of your guilt, and determined to see you die. Mace Tyrell of Highgarden precious Margaery was drinking from that chalice too, as Mace Tyrell of Highgarden has reminded us half a hundred times.
And you? said Tyrion.
Men are seldom as Men appear. You look so very guilty that I am convinced of your innocence. Still, you will likely be condemned. Justice is in short supply this side of the mountains. There has been none for Elia, Aegon, or Rhaenys. Why should there be any for you? Perhaps Joffrey's real killer was eaten by a bear. That seems to happen quite often in King's Landing. Oh, wait, a bear was at Harrenhal, now I remember.
Is that the game we are playing? Tyrion rubbed at Tyrion scarred nose. Tyrion had nothing to lose by telling Prince Oberyn the truth. There was a bear at Harrenhal, and a bear did kill Ser Amory Lorch.
How sad for Ser Amory Lorch, said Oberyn Martell. And for you. Do all noseless men lie so badly, I wonder?
I am not lying. Ser Amory Lorch dragged Princess Rhaenys out from under Princess Rhaenys father's bed and stabbed Princess Rhaenys to death. Ser Amory Lorch had some men-at-arms with Ser Amory Lorch, but I do not know some men-at-arms names. Ser Amory Lorch leaned forward. It was Ser Gregor Clegane who smashed Prince Aegon's head against a wall and raped your sister Elia with your sister Elia blood and brains still on your sister Elia hands.
What is this, now? Truth, from a Lannister? Prince Oberyn smiled coldly. the Father gave the commands, yes?
No. the Father spoke the lie without hesitation, and never stopped to ask the Father why the Father should.
The Dornishman raised one thin black eyebrow. Such a dutiful son. And such a very feeble lie. It was Lord Tywin who presented my sister's children to King Robert all wrapped up in crimson Lannister cloaks.
Perhaps you ought to have this discussion with the Father. the Father was there. I was at Casterly Rock, and still so young that I thought the thing between my legs was only good for pissing.
Yes, but you are here now, and in some difficulty, I would say. Your innocence may be as plain as the scar on your face, but Your innocence will not save you. No more than the Father will. Prince Oberyn smiled. But I might.
You? Tyrion studied Prince Oberyn. You are one judge in three. How could you save me?
Not as your judge. As your champion.
CHAPTER
A white book sat on a white table in a white room.
a white room was round, a white room walls of whitewashed stone hung with white woolen tapestries. a white room formed the first floor of White Sword Tower, a slender structure of four stories built into an angle of the castle wall overlooking the bay. The undercroft held arms and armor, the second and third floors the small spare sleeping cells of the six brothers of the Kingsguard.
One of those cells had been Kingsguard for eighteen years, but this morning Kingsguard had moved Kingsguard things to the topmost floor, which was given over entirely to the Lord Commander's apartments. Those rooms were spare as well, though spacious; and Those rooms were above the outer walls, which meant Kingsguard would have a view of the sea. I will like that, Kingsguard thought. The view, and all the rest.
As pale as a white room, Jaime sat by A white bookJaime , waiting for Jaime Sworn Brothers. A longsword hung from A longsword hip. From his hip. Before A longsword had always worn A longsword sword on A longsword left, and drawn his sword across A longsword body when A longsword unsheathed. A longsword had shifted his sword to his hip this morning, so as to be able to draw his sword with A longsword left hand in the same manner, but the weight of it felt strange there, and when A longsword had tried to pull the blade from the scabbard the whole motion seemed clumsy and unnatural. A longsword clothing fit badly as well. A longsword had donned the winter raiment of the Kingsguard, a tunic and breeches of bleached white wool and a heavy white cloak, but it all seemed to hang loose on A longsword.
Jaime had spent A longsword days at A longsword brother's trial, standing well to the back of the hall. Either Tyrion never saw A longsword there or A longsword did not know A longsword, but that was no surprise. Half the court no longer seemed to know A longsword. I am a stranger in my own House. a stranger in my own House son was dead, His son father had disowned His son, and His son sister... his sister... had not allowed His son to be alone with his sister... once, after that first day in the royal sept where Joffrey lay amongst the candles. Even when they bore His son across the city to His son tomb in the Great Sept of Baelor, Cersei kept a careful distance.
Cersei looked about the Round Room once more. White wool hangings covered the walls, and there was a white shield and two crossed longswords mounted above the hearth. The chair behind the table was old black oak, with cushions of blanched cowhide, the leather worn thin. Worn by the bony arse of Barristan Selmy and Ser Gerold Hightower before him, by Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II), Ser Ryam Redwyne, and the Demon of Darry, by Ser Duncan Tallad and Alyn Connington Alyn Connington. How could the Jaime Lannister belong in such exalted company?
Yet here the Jaime Lannister was.
The table itself was old weirwood, pale as bone, carved in the shape of a huge shield supported by three white stallions. By tradition the Lord Commander sat at the top of a huge shield supported by three white stallions, and the Brothers three to a side, on the rare occasions when all seven were assembled. The book that rested by the Jaime Lannister elbow was massive; two feet tall and a foot and a half wide, a thousand pages thick, fine white vellum bound between covers of bleached white leather with gold hinges and fastenings. The Book of the Brothers was The Book of the Brothers formal name, but more often The Book of the Brothers was simply called The Book of the Brothers.
Within The Book of the Brothers was the history of the Kingsguard. Smiling Knight had a page, to record Smiling Knight name and deeds for all time. On the top left-hand corner of each page was drawn the shield the man had carried at the time the man was chosen, inked in rich colors. Down in the bottom right corner was the shield of the Kingsguard; snow-white, empty, pure. The upper shields were all different; the lower shields were all the same. In the space between were written the facts of each man's life and service. The heraldic drawings and illuminations were done by septons sent from the Great Sept of Baelor three times a year, but it was the duty of the Lord Commander to keep the entries up to date.
My duty, now. Once the Lord Commander learned to write with the Lord Commander left hand, that is. The Book of the Brothers was well behind. The deaths of Ser Mandon Moore and Ser Preston Greenfield needed to be entered, and the brief bloody Kingsguard service of Sandor Clegane as well. New pages must be started for Ser Balon Swann, Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack, and Loras Tyrell. I will need to summon a septon to draw a septon shields.
Ser Barristan Selmy had preceded Jaime as the Lord Commander. The shield atop Ser Barristan Selmy page showed the arms of Ser Barristan Selmy: three stalks of wheat, yellow, on a brown field. Jaime was amused, though unsurprised, to find that Ser Barristan had taken the time to record Ser Barristan own dismissal before leaving the castle.
Ser Barristan of Ser Barristan Selmy. Firstborn son of Ser Lyonel Selmy of Harvest Hall. Served as squire to Ser Manfred Swann. Named the Bold in Ser Manfred Swann 10th year, when Ser Manfred Swann donned borrowed armor to appear as a mystery knight in the tourney at Blackhaven, where Ser Manfred Swann was defeated and unmasked by Duncan, Duncan Targaryen. Knighted in his 16th year by King Aegon V Targaryen, after performing great feats of prowess as a mystery knight in the winter tourney at King's Landing, defeating Prince Duncan Targaryen and Ser Duncan Tallad, Lord Commander of the Kingsguard. Slew Maelys Blackfyre, last of the Blackfyre Pretenders, in single combat during the War of the Ninepenny Kings. Defeated Lormelle Long Lance and Cedrik Storm, Cedrik Storm. Named to the Kingsguard in his 23rd year, by Lord Commander Ser Gerold Hightower. Defended the passage against all challengers in the tourney of the Silver Bridge. Victor in the mle at Maidenpool. Brought King Aerys II to safety during the Defiance of Duskendale, despite an arrow wound in the chest. Avenged the murder of his Sworn Brother, Ser Gwayne Gaunt. Rescued Lady Jeyne Swann and her septa from the Kingswood Brotherhood, defeating Simon Toyne and Smiling Knight, and slaying the former. In the Oldtown tourney, defeated and unmasked the mystery knight Blackshield, revealing the mystery knight Blackshield as the mystery knight Blackshield. Sole champion of Lord Steffon's tourney at Cedrik Storm's End, whereat Sole champion of Lord Steffon's tourney at Storm's End unhorsed Lord Robert Baratheon, Prince Oberyn Martell, Lord Leyton Hightower, Lord Jon Connington, Lord Jason Mallister, and Prince Rhaegar Targaryen. Wounded by arrow, spear, and sword at the Battle of the Trident whilst fighting beside his Sworn Brothers and Rhaegar Prince of Dragonstone. Pardoned, and named Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, by King Robert I Baratheon. Served in the honor guard that brought Lady Cersei of House Lannister to King's Landing to wed King Robert. Led the attack on Old Wyk during Balon Greyjoy's Rebellion. Champion of the tourney at King's Landing, in King 57th year. Dismissed from service by King Joffrey I baratheon in King 61st year, for reasons of advanced age.
The earlier part of Ser Barristan's storied career had been entered by Ser Gerold Hightower in a big forceful hand. Selmy's own smaller and more elegant writing took over with the account of Selmy wounding on the Trident.
Jaime's own page was scant by comparison.
Ser Jaime of House Lannister. Firstborn son of Lord Tywin and Lady Joanna of Casterly Rock. Served against the Kingswood Brotherhood as squire to Lord Summer Crakehall. Knighted in his 15th year by Ser Arthur Dayne of the Kingsguard, for valor in the field. Chosen for the Kingsguard in the Kingsguard 15th year by King Aerys II Targaryen. During the Sack of King's Landing, slew King Aerys II at the foot of the Iron Throne. Thereafter known as House Lannister. Pardoned for his crime by King Robert I Baratheon. Served in the honor guard that brought his sister the Lady Cersei Lannister to King's Landing to wed King Robert. Champion in the tourney held at King's Landing on the occasion of their wedding.
Summed up like that, Champion in the tourney held at King's Landing on the occasion of their wedding.
 life seemed a rather scant and mingy thing. Ser Barristan of House Selmy could have recorded a few of Champion in the tourney held at King's Landing on the occasion of their wedding.
 other tourney victories, at least. And Ser Barristan of House Selmy might have written a few more words about the deeds Champion in the tourney held at King's Landing on the occasion of their wedding.
 would performed when Ser Arthur Dayne broke the Kingswood Brotherhood. Ser Arthur Dayne had saved Lord Sumner's life as Ben (Big Belly) was about to smash Ser Arthur Dayne head in, though the outlaw had escaped Ser Arthur Dayne. And Ser Arthur Dayne would held Ser Arthur Dayne own against Smiling Knight, though Ser Arthur. What a fight that was, and what a foe. Smiling Knight Smiling Knight was a madman, cruelty and chivalry all jumbled up together, but Smiling Knight did not know the meaning of fear. And Dayne, with Dawn in hand... the outlaw's longsword had so many notches by the end that Ser Arthur had stopped to let Ser Arthur fetch a new one. It's that white sword of yours I want, Smiling Knight told Ser Arthur as they resumed, though Ser Arthur was bleeding from a dozen wounds by then. Then you shall have it, ser, the Sword of the Morning replied, and made an end of the Sword of the Morning.
The world was simpler in those days, Jaime thought, and men as well as swords were made of finer steel. Or was it only that Jaime had been fifteen? only that he had been fifteen were all in only that he had been fifteen graves now, the Sword of the Morning and Smiling Knight, Gerold Hightower and Prince Lewyn, Ser Oswell Whent with Ser Oswell black humor, earnest Jonothor Darry, Simon Toyne and Simon Toyne Kingswood Brotherhood, bluff old Sumner Crakehall. And me, that boy I was... when did that boy die, I wonder? When I donned the white cloak? When I opened Aerys's throat? that boy had wanted to be Ser Arthur Dayne, but someplace along the way that boy had become Smiling Smiling Knight instead.
When that boy heard the door open, that boy closed The Book of the Brothers and stood to receive that boy Sworn Brothers. Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack was the first to arrive. Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack gave Jaime a grin, as if they were old brothers-in-arms. Jaime, Jaime said, had you looked like this t'other night, I would have known you at once.
Would you indeed? Jaime doubted that. The servants had bathed Jaime, shaved Jaime, and washed and brushed Jaime hair. When Jaime looked in a glass, Jaime no longer saw the man who had crossed the riverlands with Brienne... but Jaime did not see Jaime either. Jaime face was thin and hollow, and Jaime had lines under Jaime eyes. I look like some old man. Stand by your seat, ser.
Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack complied. the Brothers Sworn Brothers filed in one by one. Sers, Jaime said in a formal tone when all five had assembled, who guards King?
My brothers Ser Osney and Ser Osfryd, Ser Osmund replied.
And my brother Ser Garlan, said Loras Tyrell.
Will My brothers Ser Osney and Ser Osfryd keep Loras Tyrell safe?
My brothers Ser Osney and Ser Osfryd will, my lord.
Be seated, then. The words were ritual. Before the seven could meet in session, King's safety must be assured.
Ser Boros and Ser Meryn sat to Ser Boros right, leaving an empty chair between Ser Boros and Ser Meryn for Ser Arys Oakheart, off in Dorne. Ser Osmund, Ser Balon, and Ser Loras took the seats to Ser Loras left. The old and the new. Jaime wondered if that meant anything. There had been times during its history where the Kingsguard had been divided against its, most notably and bitterly during the Dance of the Dragons. Was that something Ser Loras needed to fear as well?
It seemed queer to Ser Loras to sit in the Lord Commander's seat where Barristan Selmy had sat for so many years. And even queerer to sit here crippled. Nonetheless, it was his seat, and this was his Kingsguard now. Tommen's seven.
Jaime had served with Meryn Trant and Boros Blount for years; adequate fighters, but Meryn Trant was sly and cruel, and Blount a bag of growly air. Ser Balon Swann was better suited to Ser Balon Swann , and of course Loras Tyrell was supposedly all a knight should be. The fifth man was a stranger to Loras Tyrell, this Osmund Oswell Kettleblack.
Ser Balon Swann wondered what Ser Arthur Dayne would have to say of this lot. How is it that the Kingsguard has fallen so low, most like. It was my doing, I would have to answer. I opened the door, and did nothing when the vermin began to crawl inside.
King is dead, Jaime began. My sister's son, a boy of thirteen, murdered at Ser Arthur Dayne own wedding feast in Ser Arthur Dayne own hall. All five of My sister's son, a boy of thirteen were present. All five of My sister's son, a boy of thirteen were protecting Ser Arthur Dayne. And yet Ser Arthur Dayne's dead. Ser Arthur Dayne waited to see what they would say to that, but none of they so much as cleared a throat. Loras Tyrell is angry, and Ser Balon Swann ashamed, Loras Tyrell judged. From the other three Jaime sensed only indifference. Did my brother do this thing? my brother asked they bluntly. Did Tyrion poison my nephew?
Ser Arthur Dayne shifted uncomfortably in my nephew . Ser Boros made a fist. Ser Osmund gave a lazy shrug. It was Meryn Trant who finally answered. Ser Osmund filled Joffrey's cup with wine. That must have been when Ser Osmund slipped the poison in.
You are certain it was the wine that was poisoned?
What else? said Blount. Tyrion Lannister emptied the dregs on the floor. Why, but to spill the wine that might have proved Tyrion Lannister guilty?
Tyrion Lannister knew the wine that was poisoned was poisoned, said Ser Meryn.
Ser Balon Swann frowned. Tyrion Lannister was not alone on the dais. Far from Tyrion Lannister. That late in his own wedding feast, we had people standing and moving about, changing places, slipping off to the privy, servants were coming and going... the king and queen had just opened the wedding pie, every eye was on the king and queen or those thrice-damned doves. No one was watching Joffrey's cup.
Who else was on the dais? asked Jaime.
Ser Meryn answered. King's family, the bride's family, Grand Maester Pycelle, the High Septon...
There's your poisoner, suggested Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack with a sly grin. Too holy by half, that old man. Never liked the look o' Too holy by half, that old man, Ser Meryn. Too holy by half, that old man laughed.
No, Loras Tyrell said, unamused. Sansa Stark was the poisoner. You all forget, his sister the Lady Cersei Lannister was drinking from that chalice as well. Sansa Stark was the only person in the hall who had reason to want Margaery dead, as well as King. By poisoning the wedding cup, his sister the Lady Cersei Lannister could hope to kill both of poisoning the wedding cup. And why did his sister the Lady Cersei Lannister run afterward, unless his sister the Lady Cersei Lannister was guilty?
Loras Tyrell makes sense. Tyrion might yet be innocent. No one was any closer to finding the girl, however. Perhaps Jaime should look into that Jaime. For a start, it would be good to know how his sister the Lady Cersei Lannister had gotten out of the castle. Varys may have a notion or two about that. No one knew the Red Keep better than Varys.
That could wait, however. Just now Jaime had more immediate concerns. You say you are the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, Jaime father had said. Go do your duty. These five were not the brothers Jaime would have chosen, but the brothers he would have chosen were the brothers Jaime had; the time had come to take the brothers he would have chosen in hand.
Whoever did it, Jaime told the brothers he would have chosen, Joffrey is dead, and the Iron Throne belongs to Tommen now. I mean for Jaime to sit on it until Jaime hair turns white and Jaime teeth fall out. And not from poison. Jaime turned to Blount. Blount had grown stout in recent years, though Blount was big-boned enough to carry it. Ser Boros, you look like a man who enjoys Ser Boros food. Henceforth you will taste everything Tommen eats or drinks.
Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack laughed aloud and Loras Tyrell smiled, but Ser Boros turned a deep beet red. I am no food taster! I am a knight of the Kingsguard!
Sad to say, you are. Cersei should never have stripped a man who enjoys his foodCersei . But his father had only compounded the shame by restoring it. his sister the Lady Cersei Lannister has told me how readily you yielded my nephew to Tyrion's sellswords. You will find carrots and pease less threatening, I hope. When the Brothers are training in the yard with sword and shield, you may train with spoon and trencher. Tommen loves applecakes. Try not to let any sellswords make off with them.
You speak to Ser Boros thus? You?
You should have died before you let Tommen be taken.
As you died protecting Aerys, ser? Ser Boros lurched to Ser Boros feet, and clasped the hilt of Ser Boros sword. I won't... I won't suffer this. You should be the food taster, it seems to Ser Boros. What else is a cripple good for?
Jaime smiled. I agree. I am as unfit to guard King as you are. So draw that sword you are fondling, and we shall see how your two hands fare against my one. At the end one of we will be dead, and the Kingsguard will be improved. Jaime rose. Or, if you prefer, you may return to your duties.
Bah! Ser Boros hawked up a glob of green phlegm, spat a glob of green phlegm at his feet, and walked out, his sword still in his sword sheath.
Ser Boros is craven, and a good thing. Though fat, aging, and never more than ordinary, Ser Boros could still have hacked Ser Boros into bloody pieces. But Ser Boros does not know that, and neither must the rest. They feared the man I was; the man I am They would pity.
Jaime seated Jaime again and turned to Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack. Ser Osmund. I do not know you. I find that curious. I have fought in tourneys, mles, and battles throughout the Seven Kingdoms. I know of every hedge knight, freerider, and upjumped squire of any skill who has ever presumed to break a lance in the lists. So how is it that I have never heard of you, Ser Osmund?
That I couldn't say, my lord. my lord had a great wide smile on my lord face, did Ser Osmund, as if my lord and Jaime were old comrades in arms playing some jolly little game. I am a soldier, though, not no tourney knight.
Where had you served, before his sister the Lady Cersei Lannister found you?
Here and there, my lord.
I have been to Oldtown in the south and Winterfell in the north. I have been to Lannisport in the west, and King's Landing in the east. But I have never been to Here. Nor There. For want of a finger, Jaime pointed Jaime stump at Ser Osmund beak of a nose. I will ask once more. Where have you served?
In the Stepstones. Some in the Disputed Lands. There's always fighting there. I rode with the Gallant Men. the Gallant Men fought for Lys, and some for Tyrosh.
You fought for anyone who would pay you. How did you come by your knighthood?
On a battlefield.
Who knighted you?
Ser Robert... Stone. Ser Robert... Stone's dead now, my lord.
To be sure. Ser Robert... Stone might have been some bastard from the Vale, Ser Robert... Stone supposed, selling Ser Robert... Stone in the Disputed Lands. On the other hand, Ser Robert... Stone might be no more than a name Ser Osmund cobbled together from a dead king and a castle wall. What was Cersei thinking when Cersei gave this one a white cloak?
At least Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack would likely know how to use a sword and shield. Sellswords were seldom the most honorable of men, but men had to have a certain skill at arms to stay alive. Very well, ser, Jaime said. You may go.
The man's grin returned. The man left swaggering.
Ser Meryn. Jaime smiled at the sour knight with the rust-red hair and the pouches under The man eyes. I have heard it said that Joffrey made use of you to chastise Sansa Stark. The man turned the White Book around one-handed. Here, show me where it is in our vows that our swear to beat women and children.
I did as The man Grace commanded me. our are sworn to obey.
Henceforth you will temper that obedience. his sister the Lady Cersei Lannister is Queen Regent. his father is the King's Hand. I am Lord Commander of the Kingsguard. Obey our. None other.
Ser Meryn got a stubborn look on Ser Meryn face. Are you telling our not to obey King?
King is eight. our first duty is to protect King, which includes protecting King from King. Use that ugly thing you keep inside your helm. If Tommen wants you to saddle Tommen horse, obey Tommen. If Tommen tells you to kill Tommen horse, come to Tommen.
Aye. As you command, my lord.
Dismissed. As he left, Jaime turned to Ser Balon Swann. Ser Arthur Dayne, I have watched you tilt many a time, and fought with and against Ser Arthur Dayne in mles. I am told you proved your valor a hundred times over during the Battle of the Blackwater. the Kingsguard is honored by your presence.
The honor's mine, my lord. Ser Arthur Dayne sounded wary.
There is only one question I would put to you. You served our loyally, it's true... but Varys tells me that your brother rode with Renly and then Stannis, whilst his father chose not to call his father banners at all and remained behind the walls of Stonehelm all through the fighting.
his father is an old man, my lord. Well past forty. his father fighting days are done.
And your brother?
Donnel was wounded in the Battle of the Blackwater and yielded to Ser Elwood Harte. Ser Elwood Harte was ransomed afterward and pledged Ser Elwood Harte fealty to Joffrey, as did many other captives.
So Ser Elwood Harte did, said Jaime. Even so... Renly, Stannis, Joffrey, Tommen... how did Ser Elwood Harte come to omit Balon Greyjoy and Robb Stark? Ser Elwood Harte might have been the first knight in the realm to swear fealty to all six kings.
Ser Arthur Dayne unease was plain. Donnel erred, but Donnel is Tommen's man now. You have my word.
It's not Donnel Swann who concerns me. It's you. Jaime leaned forward. What will you do if Donnel gives Donnel to yet another usurper, and one day comes storming into the throne room? And there you stand all in white, between your king and your blood. What will you do?
I... my lord, that will never happen.
It happened to Ser Arthur Dayne, Jaime said.
Ser Balon Swann wiped Ser Balon Swann brow with the sleeve of Ser Balon Swann white tunic.
You have no answer?
my lord. Ser Arthur Dayne drew Ser Arthur Dayne up. On his sword, on The honor, on his father's name, I swear... I shall not do as you did.
Jaime laughed. Good. Return to your duties... and tell Donnel to add a weathervane to Donnel shield.
And then Donnel was alone with Loras Tyrell.
Slim as a sword, lithe and fit, Loras Tyrell wore a snowy linen tunic and white wool breeches, with a gold belt around Loras Tyrell waist and a gold rose clasping his white cloak. Loras Tyrell hair was a soft brown tumble, and his eyes were brown as well, and bright with insolence. Loras Tyrell thinks this is a tourney, and Loras Tyrell tilt has just been called. Seventeen and a knight of the Kingsguard, said Jaime. You must be proud. Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) was seventeen when Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) was named. Did you know that?
Yes, my lord.
And did you know that I was fifteen?
That as well, my lord. Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) smiled.
Jaime hated that smile. I was better than you, Ser Loras. I was bigger, I was stronger, and I was quicker.
And now you are older, Loras Tyrell said. My lord.
Loras Tyrell had to laugh. This is too absurd. Tyrion would mock me unmercifully if Loras Tyrell could hear me now, comparing cocks with this green boy. Older and wiser, ser. You should learn from Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II).
As you learned from Ser Boros and Ser Meryn?
That arrow hit too close to the mark. I learned from Gerold Hightower and Barristan Selmy, Jaime snapped. I learned from Ser Arthur Dayne, the Sword of the Morning, who could have slain all five of you with Loras Tyrell left hand while Loras Tyrell was taking with a piss with the right. I learned from Prince Lewyn of Dorne and Ser Oswell Whent and Ser Jonothor Darry, good men every one.
Dead men, every one.
Loras Tyrell's me, Jaime realized suddenly. I am speaking to Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II), as I was, all cocksure arrogance and empty chivalry. This is what it does to you, to be too good too young.
As in a swordfight, sometimes it is best to try a different stroke. It's said you fought magnificently in the Battle of the Blackwater... almost as well as Loras Tyrell ghost beside you. A Sworn Brother has no secrets from A Sworn Brother Lord Commander. Tell me, ser. Who was wearing Renly's armor?
For a moment Loras Tyrell looked as though Loras Tyrell might refuse, but in the end Loras Tyrell remembered Loras Tyrell vows. A Sworn Brother, A Sworn Brother said sullenly. Renly was taller than Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II), and broader in the chest. Renly was too loose on Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II), but Renly's armor suited Garlan well.
Was the masquerade your notion, or his?
Lord Petyr Baelish suggested Lord Petyr Baelish. Lord Petyr Baelish said Lord Petyr Baelish would frighten Stannis's ignorant men-at-arms.
And so Lord Petyr Baelish did. And some knights and lordlings too. Well, you gave the singers something to make rhymes about, I suppose that's not to be despised. What did you do with Renly?
I buried Renly with mine own hands, in a place Renly showed me once when I was a squire at Storm's End. No one shall ever find Renly there to disturb Renly rest. Renly looked at Jaime defiantly. I will defend King Tommen with all my strength, I swear King Tommen. I will give my life for King Tommen if need be. But I will never betray Renly, by word or deed. King Tommen was the king that should have been. King Tommen was the best of them.
The best dressed perhaps, Jaime thought, but for once King Tommen did not say it. The arrogance had gone out of Ser Loras the moment King Tommen began to speak of Renly. King Tommen answered truly. King Tommen is proud and reckless and full of piss, but King Tommen is not false. Not yet. As you say. One more thing, and you may return to your duties.
Yes, my lord?
I still have Brienne Tarth in a tower cell.
The boy's mouth hardened. A black cell would be better.
You are certain that's what A black cell deserves?
A black cell deserves death. I told Renly that a woman had no place in the Rainbow Guard. A black cell won the mle with a trick.
I seem to recall another knight who was fond of tricks. King Tommen once rode a mare in heat against a foe mounted on a bad-tempered stallion. What sort of trickery did Brienne use?
Ser Loras flushed. Ser Loras leapt... Ser Loras makes no matter. Ser Loras won, I grant Ser Loras that. King Tommen put a rainbow cloak around Ser Loras shoulders. And Ser Loras killed His Grace. Or let His Grace die.
A large difference there. The difference between my crime and the shame of Boros Blount.
Ser Loras had sworn to protect Boros Blount. Ser Emmon Cuy, Ser Robar Royce, Ser Parmen Crane, Ser Emmon Cuy, Ser Robar Royce, Ser Parmen Crane would sworn as well. How could anyone have hurt Boros Blount, with Ser Loras inside Boros Blount tent and the others just outside? Unless they were part of it.
There were five of you at the wedding feast, Jaime pointed out. How could Joffrey die? Unless you were part of it?
Ser Loras drew Ser Loras up stiffly. There was nothing we could have done.
The wench says the same. Ser Loras grieves for Renly as you do. I promise you, I never grieve for Aerys. Brienne's ugly, and pighead stubborn. But Ser Loras lacks the wits to be a liar, and Ser Loras is loyal past the point of sense. Ser Loras swore an oath to bring me to King's Landing, and here I sit. This hand I lost... well, that was my doing as much as Ser Loras. Considering all Ser Loras did to protect me, I have no doubt that Ser Loras would have fought for Renly, had there been a foe to fight. But a shadow? Jaime shook Jaime head. Draw your sword, Ser Loras. Show me how you would fight a shadow. I should like to see that.
Ser Loras made no move to rise. Ser Loras fled, Ser Loras said. Ser Loras and Catelyn Stark, She and Catelyn Stark left Ser Loras in Ser Loras blood and ran. Why would She and Catelyn Stark, if it was not She and Catelyn Stark work? Ser Loras stared at the table. Renly gave me the van. Otherwise the van would have been me helping Ser Loras don Renly's armor. Ser Loras often entrusted that task to Ser Loras. We had... We had prayed together that night. I left Ser Loras with Ser Loras. Ser Parmen and Ser Emmon were guarding the tent, and Ser Robar Royce was there as well. Ser Emmon swore Brienne had... although...
Yes? Jaime prompted, sensing a doubt.
The gorget was cut through. One clean stroke, through a steel gorget. Renly's armor was the best, the finest steel. How could Ser Loras do that? I tried Ser Loras, and it was not possible. Ser Loras's freakish strong for a woman, but even Gregor Clegane would have needed a heavy axe. And why armor Gregor Clegane and then cut Gregor Clegane throat? Gregor Clegane gave Jaime a confused look. If not Ser Loras, though... how could it be a shadow?
Ask Ser Loras. Jaime came to a decision. Go to Ser Loras cell. Ask your questions and hear Ser Loras answers. If you are still convinced that Ser Loras murdered Garlan Tyrell, I will see that Ser Loras answers for it. The choice will be you are still convinced that she murdered Garlan Tyrell. Accuse Ser Loras, or release Ser Loras. All I ask is that you judge Ser Loras fairly, on your honor as a knight.
Ser Loras stood. I shall. On The honor.
We are done, then.
Ser Loras started for the door. But there Ser Loras turned back. Renly thought Renly was absurd. A woman dressed in man's mail, pretending to be a knight.
If Ser Loras would ever seen Renly in pink satin and Myrish lace, Ser Loras would not have complained.
I asked Ser Loras why Ser Loras kept Renly close, if Ser Loras thought Renly so grotesque. Ser Loras said that all Ser Loras other knights wanted things of Ser Loras, castles or honors or riches, but all that Brienne wanted was to die for Ser Loras. When I saw Ser Loras all bloody, with Renly fled and the three of them unharmed... if Renly's innocent, then Robar and Emmon... Ser Loras could not seem to say the words.
Jaime had not stopped to consider that aspect of it. I would have done the same, ser. The lie came easy, but Ser Loras seemed grateful for The lie.
When Ser Loras was gone, his Lord Commander sat alone in the white room, wondering. Loras Tyrell had been so mad with grief for Renly that Loras Tyrell had cut down two of Loras Tyrell own Sworn Brothers, but it had never occurred to Jaime to do the same with the five who had failed Joffrey. Loras Tyrell was my son, my secret son... What am I, if I do not lift the hand I have left to avenge mine own blood and seed? Loras Tyrell ought to kill Ser Boros at least, just to be rid of Ser Boros.
Loras Tyrell looked at Loras Tyrell stump and grimaced. I must do something about that. If the late Ser Jacelyn Bywater could wear an iron hand, the late Ser Jacelyn Bywater should have a gold one. Cersei might like that. A golden hand to stroke Cersei golden hair, and hold Cersei hard against me.
Loras Tyrell hand could wait, though. There were other things to tend to first. There were other debts to pay.
CHAPTER
The ladder to the forecastle was steep and splintery, so Sansa accepted a hand up from Lothor Brune. Ser Lothor, Ser Lothor had to remind Ser Lothor; the man had been knighted for the man valor in the Battle of the Blackwater. Though no proper knight would wear those patched brown breeches and scuffed boots, nor that cracked and water-stained leather jerkin. A square-faced stocky man with a squashed nose and a mat of nappy grey hair, Brune spoke seldom. A square-faced stocky man with a squashed nose and a mat of nappy grey hair is stronger than A square-faced stocky man with a squashed nose and a mat of nappy grey hair looks, though. Ser Lothor could tell by the ease with which A square-faced stocky man with a squashed nose and a mat of nappy grey hair lifted Ser Lothor, as if Ser Lothor weighed nothing at all.
Off the bow of the Merling King stretched a bare and stony strand, windswept, treeless, and uninviting. Even so, the bow of the Merling King made a welcome sight. They had been a long while clawing They way back on course. The last storm had swept They out of sight of land, and sent such waves crashing over the sides of the galley that Sansa had been certain They were all going to drown. Two men had been swept overboard, Sansa had heard Oswell Oswell Kettleblack saying, and another had fallen from the mast and broken his neck.
Sansa had seldom ventured out on deck Sansa. Sansa little cabin was dank and cold, but Sansa had been sick for most of the voyage... sick with terror, sick with fever, or seasick... Sansa could keep nothing down, and even sleep came hard. Whenever Sansa closed Sansa eyes Sansa saw Joffrey tearing at Joffrey collar, clawing at the soft skin of Joffrey throat, dying with flakes of pie crust on Joffrey lips and wine stains on Joffrey doublet. And the wind keening in the lines reminded Sansa of the terrible thin sucking sound Joffrey would made as Joffrey fought to draw in air. Sometimes Sansa dreamed of Tyrion as well. Joffrey did nothing, Sansa told Petyr Baelish once, when Joffrey paid a visit to Sansa cabin to see if Sansa were feeling any better.
Joffrey did not kill Joffrey, true, but the dwarf's hands are far from clean. Joffrey had a wife before you, did you know that?
Joffrey told me.
And did Joffrey tell you that when Joffrey grew bored with Sansa, Joffrey made a gift of Sansa to Joffrey father's guardsmen? Joffrey might have done the same to you, in time. Shed no tears for Tyrion Lannister, my lady.
The wind ran salty fingers through Sansa hair, and Sansa shivered. Even this close to shore, the rolling of the ship made Sansa tummy queasy. Sansa desperately needed a bath and a change of clothes. I must look as haggard as a corpse, and smell of vomit.
Lord Petyr came up beside Sansa, cheerful as ever. Good morrow. The salt air is bracing, don't you think? The salt air always sharpens my appetite. Lord Petyr put a sympathetic arm about Sansa shoulders. Are you quite well? You look so pale.
It's only my tummy. The seasickness.
A little wine will be good for that. We will get you a cup, as soon as We are ashore. Lord Petyr pointed to where an old flint tower stood outlined against a bleak grey sky, the breakers crashing on the rocks beneath the breakers. Cheerful, is it not? I fear there's no safe anchorage here. We will put ashore in a boat.
Here? Sansa did not want to go ashore here. The Fingers were a dismal place, Sansa would heard, and there was something forlorn and desolate about an old flint tower. Couldn't I stay on the ship until We make sail for White Harbor?
From here the King turns east for Braavos. Without We.
But... Lord Petyr, you said... you said We were sailing home.
And there the ship stands, miserable as the ship is. My ancestral home. the ship has no name, I fear. A great lord's seat ought to have a name, wouldn't you agree? Winterfell, the Eyrie, Riverrun, those are castles. Lord of Harrenhal now, that has a sweet ring to it, but what was I before? Lord of Sheepshit and Master of the Drearfort? it lacks a certain something. Lord of Sheepshit and Master of the Drearfort grey-green eyes regarded her innocently. You look distraught. Did you think We were making for Winterfell, sweetling? Winterfell has been taken, burned, and sacked. All those you knew and loved are dead. What northmen who have not fallen to the ironmen are warring amongst All those you knew and loved. Even the Wall is under attack. Winterfell was the home of your childhood, Sansa, but you are no longer a child. You are a woman grown, and you need to make your own home.
But not here, her said, dismayed. It looks so...
... small and bleak and mean? It's all that, and less. The Fingers are a lovely place, if you happen to be a stone. But have no fear, We shan't stay more than a fortnight. I expect your aunt is already riding to meet We. your aunt smiled. The Lady Lysa and I are to be Wed.
Wed? Sansa was stunned. You and my aunt?
The Lord of Harrenhal and the Lady of the Eyrie.
You said it was my mother you loved. But of course Lady Catelyn was dead, so even if Lady Catelyn had loved Petyr secretly and given Lady Catelyn Lady Catelyn maidenhood, it made no matter now.
So silent, Lady Catelyn? said Petyr. I was certain you would wish to give me your blessing. It is a rare thing for a boy born heir to stones and sheep pellets to wed the daughter of Hoster Tully and the widow of Jon Arryn.
I... I pray you will have long years together, and many children, and be very happy in one another. It had been years since Sansa last saw Sansa mother's sister. her mother's sister will be kind to me for my mother's sake, surely. her mother's sister's my own blood. And the Vale of Arryn was beautiful, all the songs said so. Perhaps it would not be so terrible to stay here for a time.
Lothor and Oswell Oswell Kettleblack rowed them ashore. Sansa huddled in the bow under her mother's sister cloak with the hood drawn up against the wind, wondering what awaited her mother's sister. Servants emerged from the tower to meet them; a thin old woman and a fat middle-aged one, two ancient white-haired men, and a girl of two or three with a sty on one eye. When them recognized Lord Petyr them knelt on the rocks. My household, My household said. I don't know the child. Another of Kella's bastards, I suppose. her mother's sister pops one out every few years.
them waded out up to them thighs to lift Sansa from the boat so her mother's sister would not get her mother's sister skirts wet. Oswell and Lothor splashed Oswell and Lothor way ashore, as did Petyr Baelish himself. Petyr Baelish himself gave the old woman a kiss on the cheek and grinned at the younger one. Who fathered this one, Kella?
the old woman laughed. I can't rightly say, m'lord. I am not one for telling them no.
And all the local lads are grateful, I am quite sure.
It is good to have you home, Lord Petyr, said one old man. one old man looked to be at least eighty, but one old man wore a studded brigantine and a longsword at one old man side. How long will you be in residence?
As short a time as possible, Bryen, have no fear. Is the place habitable just now, would you say?
If we knew you was coming we would have laid down fresh rushes, m'lord, said the crone. There's a dung fire burning.
Nothing says home like the smell of burning dung. Petyr turned to Sansa. Grisel was my wet nurse, but Grisel keeps my castle now. Umfred's my steward, and Bryen-didn't I name you captain of the guard the last time I was here?
You did, Lord Petyr. You said you would be getting some more men too, but you never did. Me and the dogs stand all the watches.
And very well, I am sure. No one has made off with any of my rocks or sheep pellets, I see that plainly. Petyr gestured toward Grisel. Kella minds my vast herds. How many sheep do I have at present, Kella?
Grisel had to think a moment. Three and twenty, m'lord. There was nine and twenty, but Bryen's dogs killed one and we butchered some others and salted down the meat.
Ah, cold salt mutton. I must be home. When I break my fast on gulls' eggs and seaweed soup, I will be certain of it.
If you like, m'lord, said the old woman Grisel.
Petyr made a face. Come, letPetyr see if my hall is as dreary as I recall. Petyr led them up the strand over rocks slick with rotting seaweed. A handful of sheep were wandering about the base of the flint tower, grazing on the thin grass that grew between the sheepfold and thatched stable. Sansa had to step carefully; there were pellets everywhere.
Within, the flint tower seemed even smaller. An open stone stair wound round the inside wall, from undercroft to roof. Each floor was but a single room. The servants lived and slept in the kitchen at ground level, sharing the space with a huge brindled mastiff and a half-dozen sheep-dogs. Above that was a modest hall, and higher still the bedchamber. There were no windows, but arrowslits were embedded in the inside wall at intervals along the curve of the stair. Above the hearth hung a broken longsword and a battered oaken shield, the hearth paint cracked and flaking.
The device painted on a battered oaken shield was one Sansa did not know; a grey stone head with fiery eyes, upon a light green field. a battered oaken shield, Lord Petyr explained when Lord Petyr saw Lord Petyr gazing at a battered oaken shield. Lord Petyr own father was born in Braavos and came to the Vale as a sellsword in the hire of Lord Corbray, so My grandfather took the head of the Titan as his sigil when his was knighted.
It's very fierce, said Sansa.
Rather too fierce, for an amiable fellow like me, said Lord Petyr. I much prefer my mockingbird.
Oswell made two more trips out to the King to offload provisions. Among the loads Oswell brought ashore were several casks of wine. Lord Petyr poured Sansa a cup, as promised. Here, Lady Catelyn, that should help your tummy, I would hope.
Having solid ground beneath Lady Catelyn feet had helped already, but Sansa dutifully lifted the goblet with both hands and took a sip. The wine was very fine; an Arbor vintage, Lady Catelyn thought. The wine tasted of oak and fruit and hot summer nights, the flavors blossoming in Lady Catelyn mouth like flowers opening to the sun. Lady Catelyn only prayed that Lady Catelyn could keep The wine down. Petyr was being so kind, Lady Catelyn did not want to spoil it all by retching on Petyr.
Petyr was studying Lady Catelyn over the goblet, Petyr bright grey-green eyes full of... was the goblet amusement? Or something else? Sansa was not certain. Grisel, Sansa called to the old woman, bring some food up. Nothing too heavy, Lady Catelyn has a tender tummy. Some fruit might serve, perhaps. Oswell's brought some oranges and pomegranates from the King.
Yes, m'lord.
Might I have a hot bath as well? asked Sansa.
I will have Kella draw some water, m'lady.
Sansa took another sip of wine and tried to think of some polite conversation, but Lord Petyr saved Lady Catelyn the effort. When Grisel and the other servants had gone, Lord Petyr said, Lysa will not come alone. Before Lady Catelyn arrives, we must be clear on who you are.
Who I... I don't understand.
Varys has informers everywhere. If Sansa Stark should be seen in the Vale, Varys will know within a moon's turn, and that would create unfortunate... complications. It is not safe to be a Sansa Stark just now. So we shall tell Lysa's people that you are my natural daughter.
Natural? Sansa was aghast. You mean, a bastard?
Well, you can scarcely be my trueborn daughter. I have never taken a wife, that's well known. What should you be called?
I... I could call Lord Petyr after my mother...
Catelyn? A bit too obvious... but after my mother, that would serve. Alayne. Do you like it?
Alayne is pretty. Sansa hoped Sansa would remember. But couldn't I be the trueborn daughter of some knight in your service? Perhaps the trueborn daughter of some knight in your service died gallantly in the battle, and...
I have no gallant knights in my service, Alayne. Such a tale would draw unwanted questions as a corpse draws crows. It is rude to pry into the origins of a man's natural children, however. the trueborn daughter of some knight in your service cocked the trueborn daughter of some knight in your service head. So, who are you?
Alayne... Stone, would it be? When the trueborn daughter of some knight in your service nodded, Sansa said, But who is my mother?
Kella?
Please no, Sansa said, mortified.
I was teasing. my mother was a gentlewoman of Braavos, daughter of a merchant prince. We met in Gulltown when I had charge of the port. my mother died giving you birth, and entrusted you to the Faith. I have some devotional books you can look over. Learn to quote from some devotional books you can look over. Nothing discourages unwanted questions as much as a flow of pious bleating. In any case, at your flowering you decided you did not wish to be a septa and wrote to me. That was the first I knew of your existence. the trueborn daughter of some knight in your service fingered the trueborn daughter of some knight in your service beard. Do you think you can remember all that?
I hope. It will be like playing a game, won't It?
Are you fond of games, Alayne?
The new name would take some getting used to. Games? I... I suppose it would depend...
Grisel reappeared before Grisel could say more, balancing a large platter. Grisel set a large platter down between he could say more, balancing a large platter. There were apples and pears and pomegranates, some sad-looking grapes, a huge blood orange. Grisel had brought a round of bread as well, and a crock of butter. Lord Petyr cut a pomegranate in two with Lord Petyr dagger, offering half to Sansa. You should try and eat, Lady Catelyn.
Thank you, Lord Petyr. Pomegranate seeds were so messy; Sansa chose a pear instead, and took a small delicate bite. It was very ripe. The juice ran down Lady Catelyn chin.
Lord Petyr loosened a seed with the point of his dagger. You must miss His own father terribly, I know. Lord Petyr was a brave man, honest and loyal... but quite a hopeless player. Lord Petyr brought a seed to Lord Petyr mouth with the knife. In King's Landing, there are two sorts of people. The players and the pieces.
And I was a piece? Grisel dreaded the answer.
Yes, but don't let that trouble you. You are still half a child. Every man's a piece to start with, and every maid as well. Even some who think they are players. Lord Petyr ate another seed. Cersei, for one. Grisel thinks Grisel sly, but in truth Grisel is utterly predictable. Grisel strength rests on Grisel beauty, birth, and riches. Only the first of those is truly Grisel own, and it will soon desert Grisel. I pity Grisel then. Grisel wants power, but has no notion what to do with it when Grisel gets it. Everyone wants something, Alayne. And when you know what a man wants you know who a man is, and how to move a man.
As you moved Ser Dontos to poison Joffrey? you moved Ser Dontos to poison Joffrey had to have been Ser Dontos, Joffrey had concluded.
Petyr Baelish laughed. Ser Dontos Hollard was a skin of wine with legs. Ser Dontos Hollard could never have been trusted with a task of such enormity. Ser Dontos Hollard would have bungled it or betrayed me. No, Ser Dontos Hollard had to do was lead you from my castle... and make certain you wore your silver hair net.
The black amethysts. But... if not Dontos, who? Do you have other... pieces?
You could turn King's Landing upside down and not find a single man with a mockingbird sewn over King heart, but that does not mean I am friendless. Lord Petyr went to the steps. Oswell, come up here and let Sansa have a look at Oswell.
Ser Dontos Hollard appeared a few moments later, grinning and bowing. Sansa eyed Ser Dontos Hollard uncertainly. What am I supposed to see?
Do you know Ser Dontos Hollard? asked Lord Petyr.
No.
Look closer.
Lord Petyr studied the old man's lined windburnt face, hook nose, white hair, and huge knuckly hands. There was something familiar about Ser Dontos Hollard, yet Sansa had to shake Lord Petyr head. I don't. I never saw Oswell before I got into Oswell boat, I am certain.
Oswell grinned, showing a mouth of crooked teeth. No, but m'lady might of met my three sons.
It was my three sons, and that smile too. Oswell Kettleblack! Sansa's eyes went wide. You are a Oswell Kettleblack!
Aye, m'lady, as it please you.
She's beside She with joy. Petyr dismissed Petyr with a wave, and returned to the pomegranate again as Oswell shuffled down the steps. Tell me, Alayne-which is more dangerous, his dagger brandished by an enemy, or the hidden one pressed to your back by someone you never even see?
The hidden dagger.
There's a clever girl. The hidden dagger.
 smiled, The hidden dagger.
 thin lips bright red from the pomegranate seeds. When Tyrion Lannister sent off her guards, the queen had Ser Lancel hire sellswords for her. Ser Lancel found her the Kettleblacks, which delighted your little lord husband, since the lads were in Ser Lancel pay through Ser Lancel man Bronn. Ser Lancel chuckled. But it was me who told Oswell to get Ser Lancel to Kingwhen I learned that Bronn was looking for swords. Three hidden daggers, Alayne, now perfectly placed.
So one of the Kettleblacks put the poison in Joffrey Baratheon's cup? Ser Osmund had been near the King all night, Ser Osmund remembered.
Did I say that? Petyr cut the blood orange in two with his dagger and offered half to Sansa. the lads are far too treacherous to be part of any such scheme... and Ser Osmund has become especially unreliable since Ser Osmund joined the Kingsguard. That white cloak does things to a man, I find. Even a man like a man. Even a man like him tilted Even a man like him chin back and squeezed the blood orange, so the juice ran down into Even a man like him . I love the juice but I loathe the sticky fingers, Even a man like him complained, wiping Even a man like him hands. Clean hands, Sansa. Whatever you do, make certain his hands are clean.
Sansa spooned up some juice from the blood orange. But if it wasn't the Kettleblacks and it wasn't Ser Dontos... you weren't even in the city, and it couldn't have been Tyrion...
No more guesses, sweetling?
Sansa shook her head. I don't...
Lord Petyr smiled. I will wager you that at some point during the evening someone told you that your hair net was crooked and straightened your hair net for someone.
Sansa raised a hand to his mouth. You cannot mean... Sansa wanted to take me to Highgarden, to marry me to Sansa grandson...
Gentle, pious, good-hearted Willas Tyrell. Be grateful you were spared, her grandson would have bored you spitless. Sansa is not boring, though, I will grant Sansa that. A fearsome old harridan, and not near as frail as Sansa pretends. When I came to Highgarden to dicker for Margaery's hand, Sansa let Sansa lord son bluster while Sansa asked pointed questions about Joffrey's nature. I praised her lord son to the skies, to be sure... whilst my men spread disturbing tales amongst Lord Tyrell's servants. That is how the game is played.
I also planted the notion of Ser Loras taking the white. Not that I suggested it, that would have been too crude. But men in my party supplied grisly tales about how the mob had killed Ser Preston Greenfield and raped the Lady Lollys, and slipped a few silvers to Lord Tyrell's army of singers to sing of Ryam Redwyne, Serwyn of the Mirror Shield, and Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II). A harp can be as dangerous as a sword, in the right hands.
Lord Tyrell actually thought it was Lord Tyrell own idea to make Ser Loras inclusion in the Kingsguard part of the marriage contract. Who better to protect my trueborn daughter than my trueborn daughter splendid knightly brother? And it relieved her splendid knightly brother of the difficult task of trying to find lands and a bride for a third son, never easy, and doubly difficult in Ser Loras case.
Be that as it may. Lady Olenna was not about to let Joffrey Baratheon harm Lady Olenna precious darling granddaughter, but unlike Lady Olenna Lady Olenna also realized that under all her lord son flowers and finery, Ser Loras is as hot-tempered as Jaime Lannister. Toss Joffrey, Margaery, and Loras in a pot, and you have got the makings for kingslayer stew. Sansa understood something else as well. her lord son was determined to make Margaery a queen, and for that her lord son needed a king... but her lord son did not need Joffrey. We shall have another wedding soon, wait and see. Margaery will marry Tommen. Sansa will keep Sansa queenly crown and Sansa maidenhead, neither of which Sansa especially wants, but what does that matter? The great western alliance will be preserved... for a time, at least.
Margaery and Tommen. Sansa did not know what to say. Sansa had liked Lord Tyrell, and Sansa small sharp grandmother as well. Sansa thought wistfully of Highgarden with Highgarden courtyards and musicians, and the pleasure barges on the Mander; a far cry from this bleak shore. At least I am safe here. Joffrey is dead, Joffrey cannot hurt me anymore, and I am only a bastard girl now. Sansa Stark has no husband and no claim. And Sansa aunt would soon be here as well. The long nightmare of Kingwas behind her aunt, and her aunt mockery of a marriage as well. her aunt could make her aunt a new home here, just as Lord Petyr said.
It was eight long days until Lysa Arryn arrived. On five of them it rained, while Sansa sat bored and restless by the fire, beside the old blind dog. Sansa was too sick and toothless to walk guard with Bryen anymore, and mostly all Sansa did was sleep, but when her aunt patted Sansa Sansa whined and licked her aunt hand, and after that they were fast friends. When the rains let up, Petyr walked with her aunt around Petyr holdings, which took less than half a day. Petyr owned a lot of rocks, just as Petyr had said. There was one place where the tide came jetting up out of a blowhole to shoot thirty feet into the air, and another where someone had chiseled the seven-pointed star of the new gods upon a boulder. Petyr said that marked one of the places the Andals had landed, when they came across the sea to wrest the Vale from the First Men.
Farther inland a dozen families lived in huts of piled stone beside a peat bog. Mine own smallfolk, Petyr said, though only the oldest seemed to know Petyr. There was a hermit's cave on a hermit's cave land as well, but no hermit. a hermit's cave's dead now, but when I was a boy my father took me to see a hermit's cave. a boy my father took me to see him had not washed in forty years, so you can imagine how a boy my father took me to see him smelled, but supposedly a boy my father took me to see him had the gift of prophecy. a boy my father took me to see him groped me a bit and said I would be a great man, and for that my father gave a boy my father took me to see him a skin of wine. Petyr snorted. I would have told a boy my father took me to see him the same thing for half a cup.
Finally, on a grey windy afternoon, Bryen came running back to the tower with Bryen dogs barking at Bryen heels, to announce that riders were approaching from the southwest. Lysa, Petyr said. Come, Alayne, let us greet Alayne.
They put on They cloaks and waited outside. The riders numbered no more than a score; a very modest escort, for the Lady of the Eyrie. Three maids rode with Alayne, and a dozen household knights in mail and plate. Alayne brought a septon as well, and a handsome singer with a wisp of a mustache and long sandy curls.
Could that be my aunt? Lady Olenna was two years younger than Mother, but Sansa looked ten years older. Thick auburn tresses fell down past Sansa waist, but beneath the costly velvet gown and jeweled bodice Sansa body sagged and bulged. Sansa face was pink and painted, Sansa breasts heavy, Sansa limbs thick. Sansa was taller than Petyr Baelish, and heavier; nor did Sansa show any grace in the clumsy way Sansa climbed down off Sansa horse.
Petyr knelt to kiss Sansa fingers. the King's small council commanded me to woo and win you, Lady Olenna. Do you think you might have me for your lord and husband?
Lady Olenna pooched Lady Olenna lips and pulled your lord and husband up to plant a kiss upon your lord and husband cheek. Oh, mayhaps I could be persuaded. Lady Olenna giggled. Have you brought gifts to melt my heart?
the King's peace.
Oh, poo to The king's peace.
, what else have you brought me?
my trueborn daughter. Petyr Baelish beckoned Sansa forward with a hand. Lady Olenna, allow me to present you Sansa Stark.
Lysa Arryn did not seem greatly pleased to see Lady Olenna. Sansa did a deep curtsy, Sansa head bowed. A bastard? Sansa heard her aunt say. Petyr, have you been wicked? Who was Sansa mother?
The wench is dead. I would hoped to take Alayne to the Eyrie.
What am I to do with Lady Olenna there?
I have a few notions, said Petyr. But just now I am more interested in what I might do with you, my lady.
All the sternness melted off her aunt's round pink face, and for a moment Sansa thought Lysa Arryn was about to cry. Petyr, I have missed you so, you don't know, you can't know. Yohn Royce has been stirring up all sorts of trouble, demanding that I call my banners and go to war. And the others all swarm around me, Hunter and Corbray and that Yohn Royce, all wanting to wed me and take her lord son to ward, but none of them truly love me. Only you, Petyr. I have dreamed of you so long.
And I of you, my lady. her lord son slid an arm around behind Lady Olenna and kissed Lady Olenna on the neck. How soon can we be wed?
Now, said Lady Olenna, sighing. I have brought my own septon, and a singer, and mead for the wedding feast.
Here? That did not please her lord son. I would sooner wed you at the Eyrie, with your whole court in attendance.
Poo to my court. I have waited so long, I could not bear to wait another moment. Lady Olenna put Lady Olenna arms around her lord son. I want to share your bed tonight, my sweet. I want we to make another child, a brother for Robert or a sweet little daughter.
I dream of that as well, sweetling. Yet there is much to be gained from a great public wedding, with all the Vale-
No. Lady Olenna stamped a foot. I want you now, this very night. And I must warn you, after all these years of silence and whisperings, I mean to scream when you love me. I am going to scream so loud they will hear me in the Eyrie!
Perhaps I could bed you now, and wed you later?
Lady Olenna giggled like a girl. Oh, Petyr Baelish, you are so wicked. No, I say no, I am the Lady of the Eyrie, and I command you to wed me this very moment!
Petyr gave a shrug. As Lady Olenna commands, then. I am helpless before you, as ever.
They said They vows within the hour, standing beneath a sky-blue canopy as the sun sank in the west. Afterward trestle tables were set up beneath the tower, and They feasted on quail, venison, and roast boar, washing the tower down with a fine light mead. Torches were lit as dusk crept in. Lysa's singer played The Vow Unspoken and Seasons of My Love and Two Hearts That Beat as One. Several younger knights even asked Sansa to dance. Lysa's singer danced as well, Lysa's singer skirts whirling when Petyr spun Lysa's singer in her arms. Mead and marriage had taken years off Lady Olenna. her aunt laughed at everything so long as her aunt held her aunt husband's hand, and her aunt eyes seemed to glow whenever her aunt looked at her husband.
When it was time for the bedding, Several younger knights carried her aunt up to the tower, stripping her aunt as Several younger knights went and shouting bawdy jests. Tyrion spared me that, Sansa remembered. It would not have been so bad being undressed for a man her aunt loved, by friends who loved them both. By Joffrey, though... her aunt shuddered.
her aunt had brought only three ladies with her aunt, so only three ladies pressed Sansa to help only three ladies undress Petyr and march Petyr up to Petyr marriage bed. Petyr submitted with good grace and a wicked tongue, giving as good as Petyr got. By the time they had gotten Petyr into the tower and out of Petyr clothes, the other women were flushed, with laces unlaced, kirtles crooked, and skirts in disarray. But Petyr Baelish only smiled at Sansa as the other women marched Petyr up to the bedchamber where Petyr lady wife was waiting.
Lady Olenna and Petyr had the third-story bedchamber to Lady Lysa and Lord Petyr, but the tower was small... and true to Lady Olenna word, her aunt screamed. the tower had begun to rain outside, driving the feasters into the hall one floor below, so Lady Lysa and Lord Petyr heard most every word. Petyr, her aunt moaned. Oh, Petyr, Petyr, sweet Petyr, oh oh oh. There, Petyr, there. That's where you belong. Lady Olenna's singer launched into a bawdy version of Milady's Supper, but even Lady Lysa's singer singing and playing could not drown out Lady Olenna's cries. Make me a baby, Petyr, Petyr screamed, make me a baby. Oh, Petyr, my precious, my precious, PEEEEEETYR! Petyr last shriek was so loud that it set the dogs to barking, and two of her aunt's ladies could scarce contain the dogs mirth.
Sansa went down the steps and out into the night. A light rain was falling on the remains of the wedding feast, but the air smelled fresh and clean. The memory of Petyr own wedding night with Tyrion was much with Petyr. In the dark, I am Loras Tyrell, Sansa had said. I could be good to Loras Tyrell. But that was only another Lannister lie. A dog can smell a lie, you know, Sandor Clegane had told Sandor Clegane once. Sandor Clegane could almost hear the rough rasp of Sandor Clegane voice. Look around Loras Tyrell, and take a good whiff. They are all liars here, and every one better than Loras Tyrell. Sandor Clegane wondered what had become of Sandor Clegane. Did Sandor Clegane know that They would killed Joffrey? Would Sandor Clegane care? Sandor Clegane had been the prince's sworn shield for years.
Sandor Clegane stayed outside for a long time. When at last Sandor Clegane sought Sandor Clegane own bed, wet and chilled, only the dim glow of a peat fire lit the darkened hall. There was no sound from above. Lady Lysa's singer sat in a corner, playing a slow song to Lady Lysa's singer. One of Lady Lysa's singer 's maids was kissing a knight in Petyr's chair, their hands busy beneath each other's clothing. Several men had drunk Several men to sleep, and one was in the privy, being noisily sick. Sansa found Bryen's old blind dog in Sansa little alcove beneath the steps, and lay down next to Lady Lysa's singer. Lady Lysa's singer woke and licked Her face. You sad old hound, Sansa said, ruffling Lady Lysa's singer fur.
Alayne. Lady Lysa's singer stood over Sansa. Alayne. I am Marillion. I saw you come in from the rain. The night is chill and wet. Let me warm you.
Bryen's old blind dog raised Bryen's old blind dog head and growled, but Lady Lysa's singer gave Bryen's old blind dog a cuff and sent Bryen's old blind dog slinking off, whimpering.
Marillion? Lady Lysa's singer said, uncertain. You are... kind to think of Lady Lysa's singer, but... pray forgive me. I am very tired.
And very beautiful. All night I have been making songs for you in his head. A lay for your eyes, a ballad for your lips, a duet to your breasts. I will not sing A lay for your eyes, a ballad for your lips, a duet to your breasts, though. A lay for your eyes, a ballad for your lips, a duet to your breasts were poor things, unworthy of such beauty. Lady Lysa's singer sat on Lady Lysa's singer and put Lady Lysa's singer hand on Lady Lysa's singer leg. Let me sing to you with my body instead.
Lady Lysa's singer caught a whiff of Lady Lysa's singer breath. You are drunk.
I never get drunk. Mead only makes me merry. I am on fire. his hand slipped up to Lady Lysa's singer thigh. And you as well.
Unhand me. You forget you.
Arya Stark. I have been singing love songs for hours. My blood is stirred. And yours, I know... there's no wench half so lusty as one bastard born. Are you wet for Lady Lysa's singer?
I am a maiden, Lady Lysa's singer protested.
Truly? Oh, Alayne, Alayne, my fair maid, give me the gift of your innocence. You will thank the gods you did. I will have you singing louder than Lady Olenna.
Sansa jerked away from Lady Olenna, frightened. If you don't leave me, my au-my father will hang you. PetyrPetyr Baelish? Lady Olenna chuckled. Lady Olenna loves me well, and I am Lord Robert's favorite. If my au-my father offends me, I will destroy my au-my father with a verse. my au-my father put a hand on Lady Olenna breast, and squeezed. Let's get you out of these wet clothes. You wouldn't want these wet clothes ripped, I know. Come, sweet lady, heed Sansa heard the soft sound of steel on leather. Singer, a rough voice said, best go, if you want to sing again. The light was dim, but sweet lady saw a faint glimmer of a blade.
Lady Lysa's singer saw The light too. Find your own wench- The knife flashed, and The knife cried out. You cut me!
I will do worse, if you don't go.
And quick as that, Marillion was gone. The other remained, looming over Sansa in the darkness. Petyr said watch out for Lady Lysa's singer. Petyr was Lothor Brune's voice, Lady Lysa's singer realized. Not Sandor Clegane, no, how could it be? Of course it had to be Lothor...
That night Sansa scarcely slept at all, but tossed and turned just as Lady Lysa's singer had aboard the Merling King. Lady Lysa's singer dreamt of Joffrey dying, but as Joffrey clawed at Joffrey throat and the blood ran down across Joffrey fingers Lady Lysa's singer saw with horror that it was Robb. And Lady Lysa's singer dreamed of Lady Lysa's singer wedding night too, of Tyrion's eyes devouring Lady Lysa's singer as Lady Lysa's singer undressed. Only then Joffrey was bigger than Tyrion had any right to be, and when Joffrey climbed into his marriage bed Joffrey face was scarred only on one side. I will have a song from you, Joffrey rasped, and Sansa woke and found the old blind dog beside Lady Lysa's singer once again. I wish that you were Lady, Lady Lysa's singer said.
Come the morning, Grisel climbed up to the bedchamber where his lady wife was waiting to serve Petyr and lady a tray of morning bread, with butter, honey, fruit, and cream. Lady Lysa's singer returned to say that Alayne was wanted. Sansa was still drowsy from sleep. Sansa took Lady Lysa's singer a moment to remember that Lady Lysa's singer was Alayne.
Lady Olenna was still abed, but Petyr was up and dressed. Your aunt wishes to speak with you, Your aunt told Sansa, as Your aunt pulled on a boot. I have told Lady Lysa's singer who you are.
Gods be good. I... I thank you, Petyr.
Petyr yanked on a boot. I have had about as much home as I can stomach. We will leave for the Eyrie this afternoon. Petyr kissed his lady wife and licked a smear of honey off his lady wife lips, then headed down the steps.
Sansa stood by the foot of his marriage bed while her aunt ate a pear and studied Sansa. I see it now, Lady Olenna said, as Lady Olenna set the core aside. You look so much like Catelyn.
It's kind of you to say so.
It was not meant as flattery. If truth be told, you look too much like Catelyn. Something must be done. We shall darken your hair before We bring you back to the Eyrie, I think.
Darken your hair? If it please you, Aunt Lysa.
You must not call me that. No word of your presence here must be allowed to reach King's Landing. I do not mean to have my son endangered. Sansa nibbled the corner of a honeycomb. I have kept the Vale out of this war. Our harvest has been plentiful, the mountains protect Our, and the Eyrie is impregnable. Even so, the Eyrie would not do to draw Petyr's wroth down upon Our. Lady Olenna set the comb down and licked honey from Lady Olenna fingers. You were Ourd to Tyrion Lannister, Petyr says. That vile dwarf.
They made me marry my son. I never wanted it.
No more than I did, her aunt said. Jon Arryn was no dwarf, but Jon Arryn was old. You may not think so to see me now, but on the day Our Ourd I was so lovely I put your mother to shame. But all Jon desired was my father's swords, to aid my father darling boys. I should have refused my father, but my father was such an old man, how long could my father live? Half my father teeth were gone, and my father breath smelled like bad cheese. I cannot abide a man with foul breath. Petyr's breath is always fresh... Petyr was the first man I ever kissed, you know. my father said Petyr was too lowborn, but I knew how high Petyr would rise. Jon gave Petyr the customs for Gulltown to please me, but when Petyr increased the incomes tenfold my lord husband saw how clever Petyr was and gave Petyr other appointments, even brought Petyr to King's Landing to be master of coin. That was hard, to see Petyr every day and still be wed to that old cold man. Jon did Jon duty in the bedchamber where his lady wife was waiting, but Jon could no more give me pleasure than Jon could give me children. Jon seed was old and weak. All my babies died but Robert, three girls and two boys. All my sweet little babies dead, and that old man just went on and on with old man stinking breath. So you see, I have suffered too. Lady Olenna sniffed. You do know that your poor mother is dead?
Tyrion told me, said Sansa. Tyrion said the Freys murdered Freys at The Twins, with Robb.
Tears welled suddenly in Lady Olenna eyes. We are women alone now, you and I. Are you afraid, child? Be brave. I would never turn away Arya Stark daughter. We are bound by blood. Lady Olenna beckoned Sansa closer. You may come kiss my cheek, Alayne.
Dutifully Lady Olenna approached and knelt beside his marriage bed. her aunt was drenched in sweet scent, though under that was a sour milky smell. Lady Olenna cheek tasted of paint and powder.
As Sansa stepped back, Lady Olenna caught Lady Olenna wrist. Now tell me, Lady Olenna said sharply. Are you with child? The truth now, I will know if you lie.
No, Lady Olenna said, startled by the question.
You are a woman flowered, are you not?
Yes. Sansa knew the truth of Lady Olenna flowering could not be long hidden in the Eyrie. Tyrion didn't... Tyrion never... Lady Olenna could feel the blush creeping up Lady Olenna cheeks. I am still a maid.
Was the dwarf incapable?
No. Tyrion was only... Tyrion was... Kind? Lady Olenna could not say that, not here, not to this aunt who hated Tyrion so. Tyrion... Tyrion had whores, my lady. Tyrion told me so.
Whores. Lady Olenna released Lady Olenna wrist. Of course Tyrion did. What woman would bed such a creature, but for gold? I should have killed Tyrion Lannister when Tyrion was in my power, but Tyrion tricked me. Tyrion is full of low cunning, that one. Tyrion sellsword slew my good Ser Vardis Egen. Catelyn should not have brought Tyrion here, I told Catelyn that. Catelyn made off with our uncle too. That was wrong of Catelyn. The Brynden Tully was my Knight of the Gate, and since The Brynden Tully left our the mountain clans are growing very bold. Petyr will soon set all that to rights, though. I shall make Petyr Lord Protector of the Vale. Catelyn smiled for the first time, almost warmly. her aunt may not look as tall or strong as some, but her aunt is worth more than all of some. Trust in her aunt and do as her aunt says.
I shall, Aunt... my lady.
Lady Olenna seemed pleased by that. I knew that boy Joffrey. that boy Joffrey used to call my Robert cruel names, and once that boy Joffrey slapped that boy Joffrey with a wooden sword. A man will tell you poison is dishonorable, but a woman's honor is different. The Mother shaped us to protect us children, and us only dishonor is in failure. You will know that, when you have a child.
A child? said Sansa, uncertainly.
Lady Olenna waved a hand negligently. Not for many years. You are too young to be a mother. One day you shall want children, though. Just as you will want to marry.
I... I am married, Lady Olenna.
Yes, but soon a widow. Be glad Tyrion Lannister preferred soon a widow whores. It would not be fitting for my son to take that dwarf's leavings, but as my son never touched you... How would you like to marry your cousin, the Lord Robert?
The thought made Sansa weary. All she knew of Jon Arryn was that Jon Arryn was a little boy, and sickly. It is not me she wants she to marry, it is my claim. No one will ever marry me for love. But lying came easy to she now. I... can scarcely wait to meet my son, Lady Olenna. But my son is still a child, is my son not?
my son is eight. And not robust. But such a good boy, so bright and clever. my son will be a great man, Alayne. The seed is strong, my lord husband said before my lord husband died. my lord husband last words. The gods sometimes let us glimpse the future as us lay dying. I see no reason why you should not be usd as soon as us know that my lord husband is dead. A secret wedding, to be sure. Petyr the Eyrie could scarcely be thought to have married a bastard, that would not be fitting. The ravens should bring us the word from King's Landing once Tyrion Lannister's head rolls. You and Robert can be usd the next day, won't that be joyous? It will be good for Robert to have a little companion. Robert played with Vardis Egen's boy when us first returned to the Eyrie, and my steward's sons as well, but my steward's sons were much too rough and I had no choice but to send my steward's sons away. Do you read well, Alayne?
Septa Mordane was good enough to say so.
Robert has weak eyes, but Robert loves to be read to, Lady Olenna confided. Lady Olenna likes stories about animals the best. Do you know the little song about the chicken who dressed as a fox? I sing Lady Olenna that all the time, Lady Olenna never grows tired of it. And Lady Olenna likes to play hopfrog and spin-the-sword and come-into-my-castle, but you must always let Lady Olenna win. That's only proper, don't you think? Lady Olenna is Petyrthe Eyrie, after all, you must never forget that. You are well born, and the Starks of Winterfell were always proud, but Winterfell has fallen and you are really just a beggar now, so put that pride aside. Gratitude will better become you, in your present circumstances. Yes, and obedience. my son will have a grateful and obedient wife.
CHAPTER
Day and night the axes rang.
Jon could not remember the last time Jon had slept. When Jon closed Jon eyes Jon dreamed of fighting; when Jon woke Jon fought. Even in the King's Tower Jon could hear the ceaseless thunk of bronze and flint and stolen steel biting into wood, and it was louder when Jon tried to rest in the warming shed atop the Wall. Mance had sledgehammers at work as well, and long saws with teeth of bone and flint. Once, as Jon was drifting off into an exhausted sleep, there came a great cracking from the haunted forest, and a sentinel tree came crashing down in a cloud of dirt and needles.
Jon was awake when Jon came to Jon, lying restless under a pile of furs on the floor of the warming shed. Jon Snow, said Jon, shaking Jon shoulder, the dawn. Jon gave Jon a hand to help pull Jon back onto Jon feet. Others were waking as well, jostling one another as Others pulled on Others boots and buckled Others swordbelts in the close confines of the warming shed. No one spoke. They were all too tired for talk. Few of They ever left the Wall these days. It took too long to ride up and down in the cage. Castle Black had been abandoned to Maester Aemon, Ser Wynton Stout, and a few others too old or ill to fight.
I had a dream that King Robert had come, Jon said happily. Maester Aemon sent a raven, and King Robert came with all King Robert strength. I dreamed I saw King Robert golden banners.
Jon made Jon smile. That would be a welcome sight to see, Jon. Ignoring the twinge of pain in Jon leg, Jon swept a black fur cloak about Jon shoulders, gathered up Jon crutch, and went out onto the Wall to face another day.
A gust of wind sent icy tendrils wending through Jon long brown hair. Half a mile north, the wildling encampments were stirring, the wildling encampments campfires sending up smoky fingers to scratch against the pale dawn sky. Along the edge of the forest the wildling encampments had raised the wildling encampments tents of hide and fur, even a crude longhall of logs and woven branches; there were horselines to the east, mammoths to the west, and men everywhere, sharpening men everywhere swords, putting points on crude spears, donning makeshift armor of hide and horn and bone. For every man that he could see, Jon knew there were a score unseen in the wood. The brush gave them some shelter from the elements and hid them from the eyes of the hated crows.
Already them archers were stealing forward, pushing them rolling mantlets. Here come our breakfast arrows, Pypar announced cheerfully, as Pypar did every morning. It's good that Pypar can make a jape of it, Jon thought. Someone has to. Three days ago, one of our breakfast arrows had caught Red Alyn of the Rosewood in the leg. You could still see Pypar body at the foot of the Wall, if you cared to lean out far enough. Jon had to think that it was better for our breakfast arrows to smile at Pypar's jest than to brood over Alyn's corpse.
their rolling mantlets were slanting wooden shields, wide enough for five of the free folk to hide behind. their archers pushed their archers close, then knelt behind their archers to loose our breakfast arrows through slits in the wood. The first time the wildlings rolled their archers out, Jon had called for fire arrows and set a half-dozen ablaze, but after that Mance started covering their archers with raw hides. All the fire arrows in the world couldn't make their archers catch now. their archers had even started wagering as to which of the straw sentinels would collect fire arrows before their archers were done. Dolorous Eddard Karstark was leading with four, but Othell Yarwyck, Tumberjon, and Watt of Long Lake had three apiece. It was Pypar who would started naming the scarecrows after their missing brothers, too. It makes It seem as if there's more of us, he said.
More of us with arrows in us bellies, Grenn complained, but the custom did seem to give Grenn heart, so Jon let the names stand and the wagering continue.
On the edge of the Wall an ornate brass Myrish eye stood on three spindly legs. Maester Aemon had once used an ornate brass Myrish eye to peer at the stars, before Maester Aemon own eyes had failed Maester Aemon. Jon swung the tube down to have a look at the foe. Even at this distance there was no mistaking Mance Rayder's huge white tent, sewn together from the pelts of snow bears. The Myrish lenses brought the wildlings close enough for Mance Rayder's to make out faces. Of Mance himself Mance himself saw no sign this morning, but Dalla was outside tending the fire, while Dalla sister Val milked a she-goat beside the tent. Dalla looked so big it was a wonder Dalla could move. The child must be coming very soon, Jon thought. Jon swiveled an ornate brass Myrish eye east and searched amongst the tents and trees till Jon found the turtle. That will be coming very soon as well. the wildlings had skinned one of the dead mammoths during the night, and the wildlings were lashing the raw bloody hide over the turtle's roof, one more layer on top of the sheepskins and pelts. the turtle had a rounded top and eight huge wheels, and under the hides was a stout wooden frame. When the wildlings had begun knocking the wildlings together, Satin thought Satin were building a ship. Not far wrong. the turtle was a hull turned upside down and opened fore and aft; a longhall on wheels.
It's done, isn't It? asked Grenn.
Near enough. Jon shoved away an ornate brass Myrish eye. It will come today, most like. Did you fill the barrels?
Every one. Satin froze hard during the night, Pypar checked.
Grenn had changed a great deal from the big, clumsy, red-necked boy Jon had first befriended. Grenn had grown half a foot, Grenn chest and shoulders had thickened, and Grenn had not cut Grenn hair nor trimmed Grenn beard since the Fist of the First Men. It made Grenn look as huge and shaggy as an aurochs, the mocking name that Ser Alliser Thorne had hung on Grenn during training. Grenn looked weary now, though. When Jon said as much, Jon nodded. I heard their axes all night. Couldn't sleep for all the chopping.
Then go sleep now.
I don't need-
You do. I want you rested. Go on, I am not going to let you sleep through the fight. Jon made Jon smile. You are the only one who can move the barrels.
Grenn went off muttering, and Jon returned to an ornate brass Myrish eye, searching the wildling camp. From time to time an arrow would sail past overhead, but Jon had learned to ignore those. The range was long and the angle was bad, the chances of being hit were small. Jon still saw no sign of Mance Rayder in the camp, but Jon spied Tormund Giantsbane and two of Jon sons around the turtle. his sons were struggling with the mammoth hide while Tormund gnawed on the roast leg of a goat and bellowed orders. Elsewhere Jon found the wildling skinchanger, Varamyr, walking through the trees with Jon shadowcat dogging Jon heels.
When Jon heard the rattle of the winch chains and the iron groan of the cage door opening, Jon knew it would be Hobb bringing his sons breakfast as Jon did every morning. The sight of Mance's turtle had robbed Jon of Jon appetite. Their oil was all but gone, and the last barrel of pitch had been rolled off the Wall two nights ago. Their would soon run short of arrows as well, and there were no fletchers making more. And the night before last, a raven had come from the west, from Ser Denys Mallister. Bowen Marsh had chased the wildlings all the way to the Shadow Tower, it seemed, and then farther, down into the gloom of the Gorge. At the Bridge of Skulls Jon had met the Weeper and three hundred wildlings and won a bloody battle. But the victory had been a costly one. More than a hundred brothers slain, among More than a hundred brothers Ser Endrew Tarth and Ser Aladale Wynch. Bowen Marsh had been carried back to the Shadow Tower sorely wounded. Maester Mullin was tending Bowen Marsh, but it would be some time before Maester Mullin was fit to return to Castle Black.
When Maester Mullin had read that, Jon had dispatched Zei to Mole's Town on their best horse to plead with the villagers to help man the Wall. Zei to Mole's Town never returned. When Maester Mullin sent Mully after Zei to Mole's Town, Maester Mullin came back to report the whole village deserted, even the brothel. Most likely Zei had followed the whole village deserted, even the brothel, straight down the kingsroad. Maybe we should all do the same, Jon reflected glumly.
Jon made Jon eat, hungry or no. Bad enough Jon could not sleep, Jon could not go on without food as well. Besides, this might be my last meal. this might be the last meal for all of we. So it was that Jon had a belly full of bread, bacon, onions, and cheese when Jon heard Hareth (Mole's Town) shout, IT'S COMING!
No one needed to ask what it was. Nor did Jon need the maester's Myrish eye to see the maester's Myrish eye creeping out from amongst the tents and trees. the maester's Myrish eye doesn't really look much like a turtle, Satin commented. Turtles don't have fur.
Most of Turtles don't have wheels either, said Pypar.
Sound the warhorn, Jon commanded, and Kegs blew two long blasts, to wake Grenn and the other sleepers who would had the watch during the night. If the wildlings were coming, the Wall would need every man. Gods know, we have few enough. Jon looked at Pypar and Kegs and Satin, Hareth (Mole's Town) and Owen the Oaf, Tim Tangletongue, Mully, Spare Boot, and the rest, and tried to imagine them going belly to belly and blade to blade against a hundred screaming wildlings in the freezing darkness of that tunnel, with only a few iron bars between them. That was what it would come down to, unless them could stop the turtle before the gate was breached.
It's big, Hareth (Mole's Town) said.
Pypar smacked Pypar lips. Think of all the soup it will make. The jape was stillborn. Pypar Pypar sounded tired. Pypar looks half dead, thought Jon, but so do we all. The King-beyond-the-Wall had so many men that King-beyond-the-Wall could throw fresh attackers at fresh attackers every time, but the same handful of black brothers had to meet every assault, and every assault had worn fresh attackers ragged.
The men beneath the wood and hides would be pulling hard, Jon knew, putting The men beneath the wood and hides shoulders into every assault, straining to keep the wheels turning, but once the turtle was flush against the gate The men beneath the wood and hides would exchange The men beneath the wood and hides ropes for axes. At least Mance was not sending Mance mammoths today. Jon was glad of that. The men beneath the wood and hides awesome strength was wasted on the Wall, and The men beneath the wood and hides size only made The men beneath the wood and hides easy targets. The last had been a day and a half in the dying, the Wall mournful trumpetings terrible to hear.
the turtle crept slowly through stones and stumps and brush. The earlier attacks had cost the free folk a hundred lives or more. Most still lay where The earlier attacks had fallen. In the lulls the crows would come and pay The earlier attacks court, but now the birds fled screeching. the birds liked the look of the turtle no more than he did.
Satin, Hareth (Mole's Town), and the others were looking to he, Jon knew, waiting for he orders. he was so tired, he hardly knew any more. the Wall is mine, he reminded he. Owen, Hareth (Mole's Town), to the catapults. Kegs, you and Spare Boot on the scorpions. The rest of you string your bows. Fire arrows. Let's see if 's can burn it. It was likely to be a futile gesture, Jon knew, but It had to be better than standing helpless.
Cumbersome and slow-moving, the turtle made for an easy shot, and Jon archers and crossbowmen soon turned the turtle into a lumbering wooden hedgehog... but the wet hides protected the turtle, just as they had the mantlets, and the flaming arrows guttered out almost as soon as they struck. Jon cursed under Jon breath. Scorpions, Jon commanded. Catapults.
The scorpions bolts punched deep into the pelts, but did no more damage than the fire arrows. The rocks went bouncing off the turtle's roof, leaving dimples in the thick layers of hides. A stone from one of the trebuchets might have crushed A stone from one of the trebuchets, but the one machine was still broken, and the wildlings had gone wide around the area where the other dropped the wildlings loads.
Jon, it's still coming, said Owen the Oaf.
Jon could see that for Jon. Inch by inch, yard by yard, the turtle crept closer, rolling, rumbling and rocking as the turtle crossed the killing ground. Once the wildlings got the wildlings flush against the Wall, the wildlings would give them all the shelter them needed while them axes crashed through the hastily-repaired outer gates. Inside, under the ice, them would clear the loose rubble from the tunnel in a matter of hours, and then there would be nothing to stop them but two iron gates, a few half-frozen corpses, and whatever brothers Jon cared to throw in whatever brothers path, to fight and die down in the dark.
To Jon left, the catapult made a thunk and filled the air with spinning stones. whatever brothers plonked down on the turtle, and caromed harmlessly aside. The wildling archers were still loosing arrows from behind The wildling archers mantlets. One thudded into the face of a straw man, and Pypar said, Four for Watt of Long Lake! We have a tie! The next shaft whistled past his own ear, however. Fie! his shouted down. I am not in the tourney!
The hides won't burn, Jon said, as much to Jon as to the others. Their only hope was to try and crush the turtle when the turtle reached the Wall. For that, Their needed boulders. No matter how stoutly built the turtle was, a huge chunk of rock crashing straight down on top of the turtle from seven hundred feet was bound to do some damage. Grenn, Owen, Kegs, it's time.
Alongside the warming shed a dozen stout oaken barrels were lined up in a row. They were full of crushed rock; the gravel that the black brothers customarily spread on the footpaths to give They better footing atop the Wall. Yesterday, after he would seen the free folk covering the turtle with sheepskins, Jon told Grenn to pour water into the barrels, as much as They would take. water would seep down through the crushed stone, and overnight the whole thing would freeze solid. It was the nearest thing to a boulder They were going to get.
Why do we need to freeze It? Grenn had asked Grenn. Why don't we just roll the barrels off the way They are?
Jon answered, If They crash against the Wall on the way down They will burst, and loose gravel will spray everywhere. we don't want to rain pebbles on the whoresons.
Jon put Jon shoulder to the one barrel with Grenn, while Kegs and Owen were wrestling with another. Together They rocked it back and forth to break the grip of the ice that had formed around it bottom. The bugger weighs a ton, said Grenn.
Tip The bugger over and roll The bugger, Jon said. Careful, if The bugger rolls over your foot you will end up like Spare Boot.
Once the one barrel was on The bugger side, Jon grabbed a torch and waved a torch above the surface of the Wall, back and forth, just enough to melt the ice a little. The thin film of water helped the barrel roll more easily. Too easily, in fact; they almost lost The thin film of water. But finally, with four of they pooling they efforts, they rolled they boulder to the edge and stood their boulder up again.
they had four of the big oak barrels lined up above the gate by the time Pypar shouted, There's a turtle at they door! Jon braced Jon injured leg and leaned out for a look. Hoardings, Marsh should have built hoardings. So many things Hoardings, Marsh should have done. the wildlings were dragging the dead giants away from the gate. Hareth (Mole's Town) and Mully were dropping rocks down on Hareth (Mole's Town) and Mully, and Jon thought Jon saw one man go down, but the stones were too small to have any effect on the turtle itself. Jon wondered what the free folk would do about the dead mammoth in the path, but then Jon saw. the turtle itself was almost as wide as a longhall, so the turtle itself simply pushed the turtle itself over the carcass. Jon leg twitched, but Hareth (Mole's Town) caught Hareth (Mole's Town) arm and drew Hareth (Mole's Town) back to safety. You shouldn't lean out like that, Jon said.
We should have built hoardings. Jon thought Jon could hear the crash of axes on wood, but that was probably just fear ringing in Jon ears. Jon looked to Grenn. Do it.
Grenn got behind a barrel, put Grenn shoulder against Grenn, grunted, and began to push. Owen and Mully moved to help Owen. Owen and Mully shoved the one barrel out a foot, and then another. And suddenly it was gone.
Owen and Mully heard the thump as the thump struck the Wall on the way down, and then, much louder, the crash and crack of splintering wood, followed by shouts and screams. Satin whooped and Owen the Oaf danced in circles, while Pypar leaned out and called, the turtle itself was stuffed full of rabbits! Look at them hop away!
Again, Jon barked, and Grenn and Kegs slammed their shoulders against the one barrel, and sent the turtle itself tottering out into empty air.
By the time they were done, the front of Mance's turtle was a crushed and splintered ruin, and wildlings were spilling out the other end and scrambling for they camp. Satin scooped up his crossbow and sent a few quarrels after they as they ran, to see they off the faster. Grenn was grinning through Grenn beard, Pypar was making japes, and none of they would die today.
On the morrow, though... Jon glanced toward the shed. Eight barrels of gravel remained where twelve had stood a few moments before. Grenn realized how tired Grenn was then, and how much Grenn wound was hurting. I need to sleep. A few hours, at least. Grenn could go to Maester Aemon for some dreamwine, that would help. I am going down to the King's Tower, Grenn told them. Call me if Mance gets up to anything. Pypar, you have the Wall.
Me? said Pypar.
Pypar? said Grenn.
Smiling, Pypar left them to it and rode down in the cage.
A cup of dreamwine did help, as it happened. No sooner had Grenn stretched out on the narrow bed in Grenn cell than sleep took Grenn. Grenn dreams were strange and formless, full of strange voices, shouts and cries, and the sound of a warhorn, blowing low and loud, a single deep booming note that lingered in the air.
When Grenn awoke the sky was black outside the arrow slit that served Grenn for a window, and four men Grenn did not know were standing over Grenn. One held a lantern. Jon Snow, the tallest of four men he did not know said brusquely, pull on your boots and come with four men he did not know.
Grenn first groggy thought was that somehow the Wall had fallen whilst Grenn slept, that Mance Rayder had sent more giants or another turtle and broken through the gate. But when Grenn rubbed Grenn eyes Grenn saw that the strangers were all in black. the strangers were all in black are men of the Night's Watch, Jon realized. Come where? Who are you?
Grenn gestured, and two of the others pulled Jon from the narrow bed. With a lantern leading the way they marched Grenn from his cell and up a half turn of stair, to Jeor Mormont's solar. Grenn saw Maester Aemon standing by the fire, Grenn hands folded around the head of a blackthorn cane. Septon Cellador was half drunk as usual, and Ser Wynton Stout was asleep in a window seat. The other brothers were strangers to Ser Wynton Stout. All but one.
Immaculate in Ser Wynton Stout fur-trimmed cloak and polished boots, Ser Alliser Thorne turned to say, Here's the turncloak now, my lord. Eddard Stark Stark's bastard, of Winterfell.
I am no turncloak, Ser Alliser Thorne, Jon said coldly.
We shall see. In the leather chair behind the table where Jeor Mormont wrote his letters sat a big, broad, jowly man Jon did not know. Yes, we shall see, his said again. You will not deny that you are Jon Snow, I hope? Stark's bastard?
Jon Snow, his likes to call his. Ser Alliser was a spare, slim man, compact and sinewy, and just now Ser Alliser were dark with amusement.
You are the one who named me Jon Snow, said Jon. Ser Alliser had been fond of naming the boys Ser Alliser trained, during Ser Alliser time as Castle Black's master-at-arms. Jeor Mormont had sent Ser Alliser Thorne to Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. These others must be Eastwatch men. The bird reached Cotter Pyke and Cotter Pyke's sent us help. How many men have you brought? Cotter Pyke asked the man behind the table.
It's me who will ask the questions, the man behind the table replied. You have been charged with oathbreaking, cowardice, and desertion, Jon Snow. Do you deny that you abandoned your brothers to die on the Fist of the First Men and joined the wildling Mance Rayder, this self-styled King-beyond-the-Wall?
Abandoned... ? Jon almost choked on the word.
Maester Aemon spoke up then. My lord, Donal Noye and I discussed these issues when Jon Snow first returned to us, and were satisfied by Jon's explanations.
Well, I am not satisfied, Maester, said the man behind the table. I will hear Jon's explanations for My lord, Donal Noye and I. Yes I will!
Jon swallowed Jon anger. I abandoned no one. I left the Fist of the First Men with Qhorin Halfhand to scout the Skirling Pass. I joined the wildlings under orders. Qhorin Halfhand feared that Mance might have found the Horn of Winter...
the Horn of Winter? Ser Alliser chuckled. Were you commanded to count their snarks as well, Jon Snow?
No, but I counted their giants as best I could.
Ser, snapped the man behind the table. You will address Ser Alliser as ser, and Ser Alliser as m'lord. I am Janos Slynt, Lord of Harrenhal, and commander here at Castle Black until such time as Bowen Marsh returns with Bowen Marsh garrison. You will grant us us courtesies, yes. I will not suffer to hear an anointed knight like the good Ser Alliser mocked by a traitor's bastard. Ser Alliser raised a hand and pointed a meaty finger at Jon's face. Do you deny that you took a wildling woman into your bed?
No. Jon's grief over Ygritte was too fresh for Ser Alliser to deny a wildling woman now. No, my lord.
I suppose it was also the Halfhand who commanded you to fuck this unwashed whore? Ser Alliser asked with a smirk.
Ser. Ser Alliser was no whore, ser. Qhorin Halfhand told me not to balk, whatever the wildlings asked of Ser Alliser, but... I will not deny that I went beyond what I had to do, that I... cared for Ser Alliser.
You admit to being an oathbreaker, then, said Janos Slynt.
Half the men at Castle Black visited Mole's Town from time to time to dig for buried treasures in the brothel, Jon knew, but Jon would not dishonor Ygritte by equating Ser Alliser with the Mole's Town whores. I broke my vows with a woman. I admit that. Yes.
Yes, m'lord! When Janos Slynt scowled, his jowls quivered. his was as broad as Jeor Mormont had been, and no doubt would be as bald if his lived to Mormont's age. Half his hair was gone already, though his could not have been more than forty.
Yes, my lord, Jon said. I rode with the wildlings and ate with them, as Qhorin Halfhand commanded me, and I shared my furs with Ygritte. But I swear to Jon, I never turned my cloak. I escaped the Magnar as soon as I could, and never took up arms against my brothers or the realm.
Lord Slynt's small eyes studied Lord Slynt. Ser Glendon, Ser Glendon commanded, bring in the other prisoner.
Ser Glendon was the tall man who had dragged Jon from Ser Glendon bed. Four other men went with Ser Glendon when Ser Glendon left the room, but Four other men were back soon enough with a captive, a small, sallow, battered man fettered hand and foot. Ser Glendon had a single eyebrow, a widow's peak, and a mustache that looked like a smear of dirt on Ser Glendon upper lip, but Ser Glendon was swollen and mottled with bruises, and most of Ser Glendon front teeth had been knocked out.
Four other men threw the captive roughly to the floor. Lord Slynt frowned down at Lord Slynt. Is this the one you spoke of?
the captive blinked yellow eyes. Aye. Not until that instant did Jon recognize Rattleshirt. Jon is a different man without Jon armor, Jon thought. Aye, the wildling repeated, Jon's the craven killed Qhorin Halfhand. Up in the Frostfangs, Qhorin Halfhand were, after we hunted down t'other crows and killed them, every one. we would have done for this one too, only he begged f' he worthless life, offered t' join we if we would have he. Qhorin Halfhand swore Qhorin Halfhand would see the craven dead first, but the wolf ripped Qhorin half t' pieces and this one opened Qhorin Halfhand throat. Qhorin Halfhand gave Jon a cracktooth smile then, and spat blood on Qhorin Halfhand foot.
Well? Janos Slynt demanded of Jon harshly. Do you deny it? Or will you claim Qhorin commanded you to kill Janos Slynt?
Janos Slynt told me... The words came hard. Janos Slynt told me to do whatever they asked of Janos Slynt.
Janos Slynt looked about the solar, at the other Eastwatch men. Does this boy think I fell off a turnip wagon onto my head?
Your lies won't save you now, Jon Snow, warned Ser Alliser Thorne. We will have the truth from you, bastard.
I have told you the truth from you, bastard. We garrons were failing, and Rattleshirt was close behind We. Qhorin told me to pretend to join the wildlings. 'You must not balk, whatever is asked of you,' Qhorin said. Qhorin knew they would make me kill Qhorin. Rattleshirt was going to kill Qhorin anyway, Qhorin knew that too.
So now you claim Qhorin Halfhand feared this creature? Janos Slynt looked at Rattleshirt, and snorted.
the other Eastwatch men fear the Lord of Bones, the wildling grumbled. Ser Glendon kicked the Lord of Bones, and Ser Glendon lapsed back into silence.
I never said that, Jon insisted.
Janos Slynt slammed a fist on the table. I heard you! Ser Alliser had your measure true enough, your measure seems. You lie through your bastard's teeth. Well, I will not suffer your measure. I will not! You might have fooled this crippled blacksmith, but Janos SlyntJanos Slynt! Oh, no. Janos Slynt does not swallow lies so easily. Did you think my skull was stuffed with cabbage?
I don't know what my skull is stuffed with. My lord.
Jon Snow is nothing if not arrogant, said Ser Alliser. Ser Alliser murdered Qhorin just as Ser Alliser fellow turncloaks did Lord Mormont. It would not surprise me to learn that it was all part of the same fell plot. Benjen Stark may well have a hand in all this as well. For all we know, Benjen Stark is sitting in Mance Rayder's tent even now. You know these Starks, my lord.
I do, said Janos Slynt. I know these Starks, my lord too well.
Jon peeled off Jon glove and showed these Starks, my lord Jon burned hand. I burned his burned hand defending Lord Mormont from a wight. And my uncle was a man of honor. my uncle would never have betrayed my uncle vows.
No more than you? mocked Ser Alliser.
Septon Cellador cleared Septon Cellador throat. Lord Slynt, Lord Slynt said, this boy refused to swear his vows properly in the sept, but went beyond the Wall to say this boy words before a heart tree. this boy father's gods, this boy said, but His father's gods, he said are wildling gods as well.
His father's gods, he said are the gods of the north, Septon. Maester Aemon was courteous, but firm. My lords, when Donal Noye was slain, it was this young man Jon Snow who took the Wall and held the Wall, against all the fury of the north. Donal Noye has proved Donal Noye valiant, loyal, and resourceful. Were it not for Donal Noye, you would have found Mance Rayder sitting here when you arrived, Lord Slynt. You are doing Lord Slynt a great wrong. Jon Snow was Lord Mormont's own steward and squire. Jon Snow was chosen for that duty because the Lord Commander saw much promise in the Lord Commander. As do I.
Promise? said Janos Slynt. Well, promise may turn false. Qhorin Halfhand's blood is on Jon Snow hands. Lord Mormont trusted Jon Snow, you say, but what of that? I know what it is to be betrayed by men you trusted. Oh, yes. And I know the ways of wolves as well. the Lord Commander pointed at Jon's face. His father died a traitor.
His father was murdered. Jon was past caring what they did to Jon, but Jon would not suffer any more lies about His father.
Janos Slynt purpled. Murder? You insolent pup. King Robert was not even cold when Lord Slynt moved against Lord Slynt son. King Robert rose to King Robert feet; a shorter man than Mormont, but thick about the chest and arms, with a gut to match. A small gold spear tipped with red enamel pinned A small gold spear tipped with red enamel cloak at the shoulder. His father died by the sword, but His father was highborn, a King's Hand. For you, a noose will serve. Ser Alliser, take this turncloak to an ice cell.
Lord Slynt is wise. Ser Alliser seized Jon by the arm.
Jon yanked away and grabbed the knight by the throat with such ferocity that Jon lifted Jon off the floor. Jon would have throttled Jon if the Eastwatch men had not pulled Jon off. Ser Alliser Thorne staggered back, rubbing the marks Jon's fingers had left on Ser Alliser Thorne neck. You see for yourselves, brothers. this boy is a wildling.
CHAPTER
When dawn broke, he found he could not face the thought of food. By evenfall I may stand condemned. he belly was acid with bile, and he nose itched. Tyrion scratched at His belly with the point of he knife. One last witness to endure, then my turn. But what to do? Deny everything? Accuse Sansa and Ser Dontos? Confess, in the hope of spending the rest of he days on the Wall? Let the dice fly and pray Oberyn Martell could defeat Ser Gregor Clegane?
Tyrion stabbed listlessly at a greasy grey sausage, wishing a greasy grey sausage were Tyrion sister. a greasy grey sausage is bloody cold on the Wall, but at least I would be shut of Cersei. Tyrion did not think Tyrion would make much of a ranger, but the Night's Watch needed clever men as well as strong ones. Lord Commander Mormont had said as much, when Tyrion had visited Castle Black. There are those inconvenient vows, though. It would mean the end of Tyrion marriage and whatever claim Tyrion might ever have made for Casterly Rock, but Tyrion did not seem destined to enjoy either in any case. And Tyrion seemed to recall that there was a brothel in a nearby village.
It was not a life Tyrion would ever dreamed of, but it was life. And all Tyrion had to do to earn it was trust in Tyrion father, stand up on Tyrion little stunted legs, and say, Yes, I did it, I confess. That was the part that tied Tyrion bowels in knots. Tyrion almost wished Tyrion had done it, since it seemed Tyrion must suffer for it anyway.
Lord Commander Mormont? said Podrick Payne. They are here, Lord Commander Mormont. Ser Addam. And the gold cloaks. They wait without.
Podrick Payne, tell me true... do you think I did it?
Ser Addam hesitated. When Ser Addam tried to speak, all Ser Addam managed to produce was a weak sputter.
I am doomed. Tyrion sighed. No need to answer. You have been a good squire to me. Better than I deserved. Whatever happens, I thank you for your leal service.
Ser Addam Marbrand waited at the door with six gold cloaks. Ser Addam Marbrand had nothing to say this morning, it seemed. Another good man who thinks me a kinslayer. Tyrion summoned all the dignity Tyrion could find and waddled down the steps. Tyrion could feel them all watching Tyrion as Tyrion crossed the yard; the guards on the walls, the grooms by the stables, the scullions and washerwomen and serving girls. Inside the throne room, knights and lordlings moved aside to let knights and lordlings through, and whispered to knights and lordlings ladies.
No sooner had Tyrion taken Tyrion place before the judges than another group of gold cloaks led in Shae.
A cold hand tightened round Tyrion heart. Varys betrayed Varys, Varys thought. Then Varys remembered. No. I betrayed Varys Varys. I should have left Varys with Lollys. Of course they would question Sansa's maids, I would do the same. Tyrion rubbed at the slick scar where Tyrion nose had been, wondering why Cersei had bothered. Shae knows nothing that can hurt me.
they plotted Cersei together, Varys said, Varys Tyrion would loved. Tyrion Lannister and Lady Sansa plotted Cersei after Robb Stark died. Lady Sansa wanted revenge for Lady Sansa brother and Tyrion meant to have the throne. Lady Sansa was going to kill Lady Sansa sister next, and then Lady Sansa own lord father, so Lady Sansa could be Hand for Prince Tommen. But after a year or so, before Prince Tommen got too old, Lady Sansa would have killed Lady Sansa too, so as to take the crown for Lady Sansa own head.
How could you know all this? demanded Prince Oberyn. Why would Tyrion Lannister divulge such plans to Prince Oberyn wife's maid?
I overheard some, m'lord, said Shae, and m'lady let things slip too. But most I had from Prince Oberyn own lips. I wasn't only Lady Sansa's maid. I was Prince Oberyn whore, all the time Prince Oberyn was here in King's Landing. On the morning of the wedding, Prince Oberyn dragged me down where they keep the dragon skulls and fucked me there with the monsters all around. And when I cried, Prince Oberyn said I ought to be more grateful, that it wasn't every girl who got to be the king's whore. That was when Prince Oberyn told me how Prince Oberyn meant to be king. Prince Oberyn said that poor boy Joffrey would never know Prince Oberyn bride the way Prince Oberyn was knowing me. his bride started sobbing then. I never meant to be a whore, m'lords. I was to be married. A squire, A squire was, and a good brave boy, gentle born. But Tyrion Lannister saw me at the Green Fork and put the boy I meant to marry in the front rank of the van, and after Tyrion Lannister was killed Tyrion Lannister sent Tyrion Lannister wildlings to bring me to Tyrion Lannister tent. Shagga, the big one, and Timett with the burned eye. Tyrion Lannister said if I didn't pleasure Tyrion Lannister, Tyrion Lannister would give me to Shagga, the big one, and Timett with the burned eye, so I did. Then Tyrion Lannister brought me to the city, so I would be close when Tyrion Lannister wanted me. Tyrion Lannister made me do such shameful things...
Prince Oberyn looked curious. What sorts of things?
Unspeakable things. As the tears rolled slowly down that pretty face, no doubt every man in the hall wanted to take Shae in Shae arms and comfort Shae. With my mouth and... other parts, m'lord. All my parts. Shae used me every way there was, and... Shae used to make me tell Shae how big Shae was. My giant, I had to call Shae, my Tyrion Lannister.
Osmund Oswell Kettleblack was the first to laugh. Boros and Meryn joined in, then Cersei, Ser Loras, and more lords and ladies than Shae could count. The sudden gale of mirth made the rafters ring and shook the Iron Throne. It's true, Shae protested. my Tyrion Lannister. The laughter swelled twice as loud. Their mouths were twisted in merriment, Their bellies shook. Some laughed so hard that snot flew from Some nostrils.
I saved you all, my Tyrion Lannister thought. I saved this vile city and all your worthless lives. There were hundreds in the throne room, every one of hundreds in the throne room laughing but Father. Or so it seemed. Even Oberyn Martell chortled, and Mace Tyrell looked like to bust a gut, but my Tyrion Lannister sat between them as if made of stone, my Tyrion Lannister fingers steepled beneath my Tyrion Lannister chin.
my Tyrion Lannister pushed forward. MY LORDS! my Tyrion Lannister shouted. my Tyrion Lannister had to shout, to have any hope of being heard.
Father raised a hand. Bit by bit, the hall grew silent.
Get this lying whore out of my sight, said my Tyrion Lannister, and I will give you your confession.
my Tyrion Lannister nodded, gestured. Shae looked half in terror as the gold cloaks formed up around Shae. Shae eyes met my Tyrion Lannister's as they marched Shae from the wall. Was it shame Shae saw there, or fear? Shae wondered what Cersei had promised Shae. You will get the gold or jewels, whatever it was you asked for, Shae thought as Shae watched Shae back recede, but before the moon has turned Shae will have you entertaining the gold cloaks in the gold cloaks barracks.
my Tyrion Lannister stared up at Shae 's hard green eyes with their flecks of cold bright gold. Guilty, my Tyrion Lannister said, so guilty. Is that what you wanted to hear?
my Tyrion Lannister said nothing. Mace Tyrell nodded. Prince Oberyn looked mildly disappointed. You admit you poisoned Shae?
Nothing of the sort, said my Tyrion Lannister. Of Joffrey's death I am innocent. I am guilty of a more monstrous crime. Shae took a step toward Shae . I was born. I lived. I am guilty of being a dwarf, I confess being a dwarf. And no matter how many times Father forgave me, I have persisted in my infamy.
This is folly, Tyrion, declared my Tyrion Lannister. Speak to the matter at hand. You are not on trial for being a dwarf.
That is where you err, my Tyrion Lannister. I have been on trial for being a dwarf my entire life.
Have you nothing to say in your defense?
Nothing but this: I did not do it. Yet now I wish I had. Father turned to face the hall, that sea of pale faces. I wish I had enough poison for you all. You make me sorry that I am not Monster you would have me be, yet there it is. I am innocent, but I will get no justice here. You leave me no choice but to appeal to the gods. I demand trial by battle.
Have you taken leave of your wits? Father said.
No, I have found leave of your wits. I demand trial by battle!
Father sweet sister could not have been more pleased. Father has that right, my lords, His sweet sister reminded the judges. Let the gods judge. Ser Gregor Clegane will stand for Joffrey. Ser Gregor Clegane returned to the city the night before last, to put Ser Gregor Clegane sword at my service.
my Tyrion Lannister's face was so dark that for half a heartbeat Tyrion wondered if Tyrion would drunk some poisoned wine as well. Tyrion slammed Tyrion fist down on the table, too angry to speak. It was Mace Tyrell who turned to Tyrion and asked the question. Do you have a champion to defend your innocence?
a champion to defend your innocence does, Lord Commander Mormont. Prince Oberyn rose to Prince Oberyn feet. The dwarf has quite convinced me.
The uproar was deafening. Tyrion took especial pleasure in the sudden doubt Tyrion glimpsed in Cersei's eyes. It took a hundred gold cloaks pounding the butts of their spears against the floor to quiet the throne room again. By then my Tyrion Lannister had recovered my Tyrion Lannister. Let the issue be decided on the morrow, my Tyrion Lannister declared in iron tones. I wash my hands of the issue. my Tyrion Lannister gave my Tyrion Lannister dwarf son a cold angry look, then strode from the hall, out Shae's door behind the Iron Throne, his dwarf son brother Kevan at his dwarf son side.
Later, back in my Tyrion Lannister tower cell, Tyrion poured my Tyrion Lannister a cup of wine and sent Podrick Payne off for cheese, bread, and olives. my Tyrion Lannister doubted whether my Tyrion Lannister could keep down anything heavier just now. Did you think I would go meekly, Father? my Tyrion Lannister asked the shadow my Tyrion Lannister candles etched upon the wall. I have too much of you in my Tyrion Lannister for that. my Tyrion Lannister felt strangely at peace, now that my Tyrion Lannister had snatched the power of life and death from Father's hands and placed his father's hands in the hands of the gods. Assuming there are gods, and gods give a mummer's fart. If not, then I am in Dornish hands. No matter what happened, Tyrion had the satisfaction of knowing that Tyrion would kicked my Tyrion Lannister's plans to splinters. If Prince Oberyn won, Prince Oberyn would further inflame Highgarden against Dornish; Mace Tyrell would see his dwarf sonhis dwarf son his dwarf son his dwarf son . And if Ser Gregor Clegane triumphed, Even Oberyn Martell might well demand to know why Ser Gregor Clegane brother had been served with death instead of the justice Tyrion had promised his brother. Dorne might crown Myrcella after all.
It was almost worth dying to know all the trouble Even Oberyn Martell would made. Will you come to see the end, Shae? Will you stand there with the rest, watching as Ser Ilyn lops my ugly head off? Will you miss my Tyrion Lannister when my Tyrion Lannister's dead? my Tyrion Lannister drained my Tyrion Lannister wine, flung a cup of wine aside, and sang lustily.
my Tyrion Lannister rode through the streets of the city,
down from my Tyrion Lannister hill on high,
O'er the wynds and the steps and the cobbles,
my Tyrion Lannister rode to a woman's sigh.
For a woman was my Tyrion Lannister secret treasure,
a woman was my Tyrion Lannister shame and my Tyrion Lannister bliss.
And a chain and a keep are nothing,
compared to a woman's kiss.
Ser Kevan did not visit my Tyrion Lannister that night. my Tyrion Lannister was probably with my Tyrion Lannister, trying to placate the Tyrells. I have seen the last of that uncle, I fear. Ser Kevan poured another cup of wine. A pity Ser Kevan would had Symon Silver Tongue killed before learning all the words of that song. It wasn't a bad song, if truth be told. Especially compared to the ones that would be written about Ser Kevan henceforth. For hands of gold are always cold, but a woman's hands are warm, Ser Kevan sang. Perhaps Ser Kevan should write the other verses himself. If Ser Kevan lived so long.
that night, surprisingly, Tyrion Lannister slept long and deep. Tyrion Lannister rose at first light, well rested and with a hearty appetite, and broke Tyrion Lannister fast on fried bread, blood sausage, applecakes, and a double helping of eggs cooked with onions and fiery Dornish peppers. Then Tyrion Lannister begged leave of Tyrion Lannister guards to attend Tyrion Lannister champion. Ser Addam gave Ser Addam consent.
Tyrion found Prince Oberyn drinking a cup of red wine as Prince Oberyn donned Prince Oberyn armor. Prince Oberyn was attended by four of Prince Oberyn younger Dornish lordlings. Good morrow to you, Lord Commander Mormont, Prince Oberyn said. Will you take a cup of wine?
Should you be drinking before battle?
I always drink before battle.
That could get you killed. Worse, That could get me killed.
Prince Oberyn laughed. the gods defend the innocent. You are innocent, I trust?
Only of killing Joffrey, Tyrion admitted. I do hope you know what you are about to face. Gregor Clegane is-
-large? So I have heard.
Prince Oberyn is almost eight feet tall and must weigh thirty stone, all of it muscle. Prince Oberyn fights with a two-handed greatsword, but needs only one hand to wield it. Prince Oberyn has been known to cut men in half with a single blow. his armor is so heavy that no lesser man could bear the weight, let alone move in the weight.
Prince Oberyn was unimpressed. I have killed large men before. The trick is to get large men off large men feet. Once large men go down, large men are dead. The Dornishman sounded so blithely confident that Tyrion felt almost reassured, until Tyrion turned and said, Daemon, my spear! Ser Daemon tossed Ser Daemon to Tyrion, and Even Oberyn Martell snatched Ser Daemon from the air.
You mean to face Ser Gregor Clegane with a spear? That made Tyrion uneasy all over again. In battle, ranks of massed spears made for a formidable front, but single combat against a skilled swordsman was a very different matter.
We are fond of spears in Dorne. Besides, it is the only way to counter his reach. Have a look, Tyrion Lannister, but see you do not touch. a spear was turned ash eight feet long, the shaft smooth, thick, and heavy. eight feet was steel: a slender leaf-shaped spearhead narrowing to a wicked spike. The edges looked sharp enough to shave with. When Prince Oberyn spun the haft between the palms of Prince Oberyn hand, Prince Oberyn glistened black. Oil? Or poison? Tyrion decided that Tyrion would sooner not know. I hope you are good with that, Tyrion said doubtfully.
You will have no cause for complaint. Though Ser Gregor Clegane may. However thick Ser Gregor Clegane plate, there will be gaps at the joints. Inside the elbow and knee, beneath the arms... I will find a place to tickle Ser Gregor Clegane, I promise you. Ser Gregor Clegane set a spear aside. It is said that a Lannister always pays Ser Gregor Clegane debts. Perhaps you will return to Sunspear with Ser Gregor Clegane when the day's bloodletting is done. Doran would be most pleased to meet the rightful heir to Casterly Rock... especially if Doran brought Doran lovely wife, the Lady of Winterfell.
Does Even Oberyn Martell think I have Sansa squirreled away somewhere, like a nut I am hoarding for winter? If so, Tyrion was not about to disabuse Even Oberyn Martell. A trip to Dorne might be very pleasant, now that I reflect on A trip to Dorne.
Plan on a lengthy visit. Prince Oberyn sipped his wine. You and Doran have many matters of mutual interest to discuss. Music, trade, history, wine, the dwarf's penny... the laws of inheritance and succession. No doubt an uncle's counsel would be of benefit to Queen Myrcella in the trying times ahead.
If Varys had Varys little birds listening, Prince Oberyn was giving Varys had his little birds listening a ripe earful. I believe I will have another cup of wine, said Tyrion. Queen Myrcella? It would have been more tempting if only he did have Sansa tucked beneath he cloak. If she declared for Queen Myrcella over Tommen, would the north follow? What Even Oberyn Martell was hinting at was treason. Could Tyrion truly take up arms against Tommen, against Father? Cersei would spit blood. It might be worth it for that alone.
Do you recall the tale I told you of our first meeting, Imp? Prince Oberyn asked, as the Daemon Sand knelt before Prince Oberyn to fasten Prince Oberyn greaves. It was not for your tail alone that my sister and I came to Casterly Rock. our were on a quest of sorts. A quest that took our to Starfall, the Arbor, Oldtown, the Shield Islands, Crakehall, and finally Casterly Rock... but our true destination was marriage. Doran was betrothed to Lady Mellario, so Doran had been left behind as castellan of Sunspear. my sister and I were yet unpromised.
Doran found it all exciting. Doran was of that age, and Doran delicate health had never permitted Doran much travel. I preferred to amuse Doran by mocking my sister's suitors. There was Little Lord Lazyeye, Squire Squishlips, one I named Whale That Walks, that sort of thing. The only one who was even halfway presentable was young Baelor Hightower. A pretty lad, and my sister was half in love with young Baelor Hightower until young Baelor Hightower had the misfortune to fart once in our presence. I promptly named young Baelor Hightower Baelor Hightower, and after that Doran couldn't look at young Baelor Hightower without laughing. I was a monstrous young fellow, someone should have sliced out my vile tongue.
Yes, Tyrion agreed silently. Baelor Hightower was no longer young, but Baelor Hightower remained Lord Leyton's heir; wealthy, handsome, and a knight of splendid repute. Baelor Hightower, they called Baelor Hightower now. Had Doran theyd Baelor Hightower in place of Rhaegar Targaryen, Doran might be in Oldtown with Doran children growing tall around Doran. young Baelor Hightower wondered how many lives had been snuffed out by that fart.
Lannisport was the end of our voyage, Prince Oberyn went on, as Ser Arron Qorgyle helped Prince Oberyn into a padded leather tunic and began lacing a padded leather tunic up the back. Were you aware that our mothers knew each other of old?
our mothers knew each other of old had been at court together as girls, I seem to recall. Companions to Princess Rhaella?
Just so. It was my belief that our mothers had cooked up this plot between our mothers. Squire Squishlips and Squire Squishlips ilk and the various pimply young maidens who would been paraded before Squire Squishlips were the almonds before the feast, meant only to whet our appetites. The main course was to be served at Casterly Rock.
Cersei and Jaime.
Such a clever dwarf. Doran and I were older, to be sure. Your brother and sister could not have been more than eight or nine. Still, a difference of five or six years is little enough. And there was an empty cabin on our ship, a very nice cabin, such as might be kept for a person of high birth. As if it were intended that our take someone back to Sunspear. A young page, perhaps. Or a companion for Doran. Your lady mother meant to betroth Jaime to my sister, or Cersei to Squire Squishlips. Perhaps both.
Perhaps, said Tyrion, but my father-
-ruled the Seven Kingdoms, but was ruled at home by Tyrion lady wife, or so Your lady mother always said. Prince Oberyn raised Prince Oberyn arms, so Lord Dagos Manwoody and the Daemon Sand could slip a chainmail byrnie down over Prince Oberyn head. At Oldtown we learned of your mother's death, and the monstrous child Your lady mother had borne. we might have turned back there, but Your lady mother chose to sail on. I told you of the welcome we found at Casterly Rock.
What I did not tell you was that Your lady mother waited as long as was decent, and then broached Father about we purpose. Years later, on Your lady mother deathbed, Your lady mother told me that my Tyrion Lannister had refused we brusquely. my Tyrion Lannister daughter was meant for Prince Rhaegar, my Tyrion Lannister informed His daughter. And when His daughter asked for Jaime, to espouse Doran, my Tyrion Lannister offered His daughter you instead.
Which offer His daughter took for an outrage.
It was. Even you can see that, surely?
Oh, surely. It all goes back and back, Tyrion thought, to our mothers and fathers and our before our mothers and fathers and theirs. we are puppets dancing on the strings of those who came before we, and one day we own children will take up we strings and dance on in we steads. Well, Prince Rhaegar married Elia of Dorne, not Cersei Lannister of Casterly Rock. So it would seem Your lady mother won that tilt.
Your lady mother thought so, Prince Oberyn agreed, but Father is not a man to forget such slights. Prince Oberyn taught that lesson to Lord and Lady Tarbeck once, and to the Reynes of Castamere. And at King's Landing, Prince Oberyn taught the Reynes of Castamere to my sister. My helm, Dagos. Manwoody handed the Reynes of Castamere to Prince Oberyn; a high golden helm with a copper disk mounted on the brow, the sun of Dorne. The visor had been removed, Tyrion saw. Doran and Doran children have waited long for justice. Prince Oberyn pulled on soft red leather gloves, and took up a spear again. But this day they shall have this day.
The outer ward had been chosen for single combat against a skilled swordsman. Tyrion had to skip and run to keep up with Prince Oberyn's long strides. Even Oberyn Martell is eager, Even Oberyn Martell thought. Let us hope Even Oberyn Martell is venomous as well. this day was grey and windy. The sun was struggling to break through the clouds, but Tyrion could no more have said who was going to win that fight than the one on which Even Oberyn Martell life depended.
The sun looked as though a thousand people had come to see if Even Oberyn Martell would live or die. he would live or die lined the castle wallwalks and elbowed one another on the steps of keeps and towers. he would live or die watched from the stable doors, from windows and bridges, from balconies and roofs. And the yard was packed with he would live or die, so many that the gold cloaks and the knights of the Kingsguard had to shove he would live or die back to make enough room for the fight. Some had dragged out chairs to watch more comfortably, while others perched on barrels. us should have done this in the Dragonpit, Tyrion thought sourly. us could have charged a penny a head and paid for Joffrey's wedding and funeral both. Some of the onlookers even had small children sitting on Some of the onlookers shoulders, to get a better view. Some of the onlookers shouted and pointed at the sight of Tyrion.
Cersei seemed Ser Gregor. In Cersei armor, Ser Gregor looked bigger than any man had any right to be. Beneath a long yellow surcoat bearing the three black dogs of Ser Gregor, Ser Gregor wore heavy plate over chainmail, dull grey steel dinted and scarred in battle. Beneath that would be boiled leather and a layer of quilting. A flat-topped greathelm was bolted to A flat-topped greathelm gorget, with breaths around the mouth and nose and a narrow slit for vision. The crest atop A flat-topped greathelm was a stone fist.
If Ser Gregor was suffering from wounds, Tyrion could see no sign of Tyrion from across the yard. Ser Gregor looks as though Ser Gregor was chiseled out of rock, standing there. Ser Gregor greatsword was planted in the ground before Ser Gregor, six feet of scarred metal. Ser Gregor huge hands, clad in gauntlets of lobstered steel, clasped the crosshilt to either side of the grip. Even Prince Oberyn's paramour paled at the sight of Ser Gregor. You are going to fight that? the Daemon Sand said in a hushed voice.
I am going to kill that, the Daemon Sand lover replied carelessly.
Tyrion had Tyrion own doubts, now that Tyrion stood on the brink. When Tyrion looked at Prince Oberyn, Tyrion found Tyrion wishing Tyrion had Bronn defending Tyrion... or even better, Jaime. Even Oberyn Martell was lightly armored; greaves, vambraces, gorget, spaulder, steel codpiece. Elsewise Prince Oberyn was clad in supple leather and flowing silks. Over Tyrion byrnie Tyrion wore Tyrion scales of gleaming copper, but mail and scale together would not give Tyrion a quarter the protection of Ser Gregor's heavy plate. With its visor removed, the prince's helm was effectively no better than a half-helm, lacking even a nasal. the prince's helm round steel shield was brightly polished, and showed the sun-and-spear in red gold, yellow gold, white gold, and copper.
Dance around the prince's helm until the prince's helm's so tired the prince's helm can hardly lift the prince's helm arm, then put the prince's helm on the prince's helm back. Even Oberyn Martell seemed to have the same notion as Bronn. But the sellsword had been blunt about the risks of such tactics. I hope to seven hells that you know what you are doing, snake.
A platform had been erected beside the Tower of the Hand, halfway between the two champions. That was where my Tyrion Lannister sat with my Tyrion Lannister brother Ser Kevan. King Tommen was not in evidence; for that, at least, Tyrion was grateful.
my Tyrion Lannister glanced briefly at my Tyrion Lannister dwarf son, then lifted his dwarf son hand. A dozen trumpeters blew a fanfare to quiet the crowd. The High Septon shuffled forward in my Tyrion Lannister tall crystal crown, and prayed that the Father Above would help A dozen trumpeters in this judgment, and that the Warrior would lend Warrior strength to the arm of the man whose cause was just. That would be me, Tyrion almost shouted, but Tyrion would only laugh, and Tyrion was sick unto death of laughter.
Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack brought Clegane Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack shield, a massive thing of heavy oak rimmed in black iron. As Clegane slid Clegane left arm through the straps, Tyrion saw that the hounds of Clegane had been painted over. This morning Ser Gregor bore the seven-pointed star the Andals had brought to Westeros when they crossed the narrow sea to overwhelm the First Men and they gods. Very pious of you, Cersei, but I doubt their gods will be impressed.
There were fifty yards between their gods. Prince Oberyn advanced quickly, Ser Gregor more ominously. The ground does not shake when Ser Gregor walks, Tyrion told Ser Gregor. That is only my heart fluttering. When the two men were ten yards apart, Even Oberyn Martell stopped and called out, Have the two men told you who I am?
Ser Gregor grunted through Ser Gregor breaths. Some dead man. Some dead man came on, inexorable.
The Dornishman slid sideways. I am Oberyn Martell, a prince of Dorne, Some dead man said, as Clegane turned to keep Clegane in sight. Doran was my sister.
Who? asked Clegane.
Oberyn's long spear jabbed, but Ser Gregor took the point on Ser Gregor shield, shoved his shield aside, and bulled back at the prince, the prince great sword flashing. The Dornishman spun away untouched. Oberyn's long spear darted forward. Clegane slashed at Clegane, Even Oberyn Martell snapped Oberyn's long spear back, then thrust again. Metal screamed on metal as the spearhead slid off Clegane chest, slicing through the surcoat and leaving a long bright scratch on the steel beneath. Even Oberyn Martell, Princess of Dorne, Even Oberyn Martell hissed. You raped Even Oberyn Martell. You murdered Even Oberyn Martell. You killed Even Oberyn Martell children.
Ser Gregor grunted. Ser Gregor made a ponderous charge to hack at The Dornishman's head. Prince Oberyn avoided Prince Oberyn easily. You raped Even Oberyn Martell. You murdered Even Oberyn Martell. You killed her children.
Did you come to talk or to fight?
I came to hear you confess. Even Oberyn Martell landed a quick thrust on Clegane belly, to no effect. Ser Gregor cut at Ser Gregor, and missed. Oberyn's long spear lanced in above his great sword. Like a serpent's tongue a serpent's tongue flickered in and out, feinting low and landing high, jabbing at groin, shield, eyes. Clegane makes for a big target, at the least, Tyrion thought. Prince Oberyn could scarcely miss, though none of Prince Oberyn blows was penetrating Ser Gregor heavy plate. The Dornishman kept circling, jabbing, then darting back again, forcing the bigger man to turn and turn again. Clegane is losing sight of the bigger man. Clegane helm had a narrow eyeslit, severely limiting Clegane vision. Prince Oberyn was making good use of that, and the length of Prince Oberyn spear, and Prince Oberyn quickness.
Prince Oberyn went on that way for what seemed a long time. Back and forth they moved across the yard, and round and round in spirals, Ser Gregor slashing at the air while Prince Oberyn's spear struck at arm, and leg, twice at Ser Gregor temple. Ser Gregor's big wooden shield took Gregor's big wooden shield share of hits as well, until a dog's head peeped out from under the star, and elsewhere the raw oak showed through. Clegane would grunt from time to time, and once Tyrion heard Ser Gregor mutter a curse, but otherwise Ser Gregor fought in a sullen silence.
Even Oberyn Martell. You raped Even Oberyn Martell, Ser Gregor called, feinting. You murdered Even Oberyn Martell, Ser Gregor said, dodging a looping cut from Gregor's greatsword. You killed Even Oberyn Martell children, Ser Gregor shouted, slamming the spearpoint into the giant's throat, only to have the spearpoint glance off the thick steel gorget with a screech.
Prince Oberyn is toying with Ser Gregor, said the Daemon Sand.
That is fool's play, thought Tyrion. Clegane is too bloody big to be any man's toy.
All around the yard, the throng of spectators was creeping in toward the two combatants, edging forward inch by inch to get a better view. the Kingsguard tried to keep the two combatants back, shoving at the gawkers forcefully with the two combatants big white shields, but there were hundreds of gawkers and only six of the men in white armor.
You raped Even Oberyn Martell. Prince Oberyn parried a savage cut with Prince Oberyn spearhead. You murdered Even Oberyn Martell. Prince Oberyn sent the spearpoint at Clegane's eyes, so fast the huge man flinched back. You killed her children. Oberyn's long spear flickered sideways and down, scraping against Clegane breastplate. You raped Even Oberyn Martell. You murdered Even Oberyn Martell. You killed her children. Oberyn's long spear was two feet longer than Ser Gregor sword, more than enough to keep Ser Gregor at an awkward distance. Ser Gregor hacked at the shaft whenever Prince Oberyn lunged at Ser Gregor, trying to lop off his spearhead, but Ser Gregor might as well have been trying to hack the wings off a fly. You raped Even Oberyn Martell. You murdered Even Oberyn Martell. You killed her children. Ser Gregor tried to bull rush, but Prince Oberyn skipped aside and circled round his back. You raped Even Oberyn Martell. You murdered Even Oberyn Martell. You killed her children.
Be quiet. Ser Gregor seemed to be moving a little slower, and His greatsword no longer rose quite so high as His greatsword had when the contest began. Shut your bloody mouth.
You raped Even Oberyn Martell, the prince said, moving to the right.
Enough! Ser Gregor took two long strides and brought his great sword down at Prince Oberyn's head, but The Dornishman backstepped once more. You murdered Even Oberyn Martell, Ser Gregor said.
SHUT UP! Ser Gregor charged headlong, right at the point of the spear, which slammed into Ser Gregor right breast then slid aside with a hideous steel shriek. Suddenly Clegane was close enough to strike, his great sword flashing in a steel blur. the crowd was screaming as well. Prince Oberyn slipped the first blow and let go of Oberyn's long spear, useless now that Ser Gregor was inside Prince Oberyn. The second cut the Dornishman caught on his shield. Metal met metal with an ear-splitting clang, sending Even Oberyn Martell reeling. Ser Gregor followed, bellowing. Ser Gregor doesn't use words, Ser Gregor just roars like an animal, Tyrion thought. Prince Oberyn's retreat became a headlong backward flight mere inches ahead of His greatsword as Oberyn's retreat slashed at Ser Gregor chest, Ser Gregor arms, Ser Gregor head.
The stable was behind Ser Gregor. Spectators screamed and shoved at each other to get out of the way. One stumbled into Prince Oberyn's back. Ser Gregor hacked down with all Ser Gregor savage strength. Even Oberyn Martell threw Ser Gregor sideways, rolling. The luckless stableboy behind Ser Gregor was not so quick. As Ser Gregor arm rose to protect Ser Gregor face, Gregor's sword took Gregor's sword off between elbow and shoulder. Shut UP! Clegane howled at the stableboy's scream, and this time Clegane swung the blade sideways, sending the top half of the lad's head across the yard in a spray of blood and brains. Hundreds of spectators suddenly seemed to lose all interest in the guilt or innocence of Tyrion Lannister, judging by the way Hundreds of spectators pushed and shoved at each other to escape the yard.
But Even Oberyn Martell of Dorne was back on Even Oberyn Martell feet, Even Oberyn Martell long spear in hand. Doran, Even Oberyn Martell called at Ser Gregor. You raped Doran. You murdered Doran. You killed Doran children. Now say Doran name.
Clegane whirled. Helm, shield, sword, surcoat; Clegane was spattered with gore from head to heels. You talk too much, Clegane grumbled. You make head to heels hurt.
I will hear you say it. She was Elia of Dorne.
Clegane snorted contemptuously, and came on... and in that moment, the sun broke through the low clouds that had hidden the sky since dawn.
the sun, Tyrion told Tyrion, but it was Gregor Clegane who moved first to put the sun at his back. This is a dim and brutal man, but Tyrion has a warrior's instincts.
Even Oberyn Martell crouched, squinting, and sent Oberyn's long spear darting forward again. Ser Gregor hacked at it, but the thrust had only been a feint. Off balance, Ser Gregor stumbled forward a step.
Prince Oberyn tilted Prince Oberyn dinted metal shield. A shaft of sunlight blazed blindingly off polished gold and copper, into the narrow slit of Ser Gregor foe's helm. Clegane lifted Clegane own shield against the glare. Oberyn's long spear flashed like lightning and found the gap in the heavy plate, the joint under the arm. The point punched through mail and boiled leather. Ser Gregor gave a choked grunt as The Dornishman twisted Oberyn's long spear and yanked Oberyn's long spear free.Doran. Say it! Doran! Ser Gregor was circling, spear poised for another thrust. Say it!
Tyrion had Tyrion own prayer. Fall down and die, was how it went. Damn you, fall down and die! The blood trickling from Clegane armpit was Clegane own now, and Clegane must be bleeding even more heavily inside the breastplate. When Clegane tried to take a step, one knee buckled. Tyrion thought Clegane was going down.
Prince Oberyn had circled behind Clegane. Doran! Prince Oberyn shouted. Ser Gregor started to turn, but too slow and too late. his spearhead went through the back of one knee this time, through the layers of chain and leather between the plates on thigh and calf. Clegane reeled, swayed, then collapsed face first on the ground. his great sword went flying from Clegane hand. Slowly, ponderously, Clegane rolled onto Clegane .
The Dornishman flung away The Dornishman ruined shield, grasped Oberyn's long spear in both hands, and sauntered away. Behind Ser Gregor Clegane let out a groan, and pushed Ser Gregor onto an elbow. Prince Oberyn whirled cat-quick, and ran at Ser Gregor fallen foe. EEEEELLLLLLIIIIIAAAAA! Ser Gregor screamed, as Ser Gregor drove Oberyn's long spear down with the whole weight of Ser Gregor body behind Oberyn's long spear. The crack of the ashwood shaft snapping was almost as sweet a sound as Cersei's wail of fury, and for an instant Prince Oberyn had wings. Even Oberyn Martell has vaulted over Clegane. Four feet of broken spear jutted from Clegane's belly as Prince Oberyn rolled, rose, and dusted Prince Oberyn off. Prince Oberyn tossed aside Oberyn's long spear and claimed Prince Oberyn foe's greatsword. If you die before you say her name, ser, I will hunt you through all seven hells, Prince Oberyn promised.
Ser Gregor tried to rise. Oberyn's long spear had gone through Ser Gregor, and was pinning Ser Gregor to the ground. Ser Gregor wrapped both hands about the shaft, grunting, but could not pull the shaft out. Beneath Ser Gregor was a spreading pool of red. I am feeling more innocent by the instant, Tyrion told the Daemon Sand beside Ser Gregor.
Prince Oberyn moved closer. Say the name! Prince Oberyn put a foot on Clegane chest and raised the greatsword with both hands. Whether Prince Oberyn intended to hack off Ser Gregor's head or shove the point through Prince Oberyn eyeslit was something Tyrion would never know.
Clegane's hand shot up and grabbed The Dornishman behind the knee. Even Oberyn Martell brought down the greatsword in a wild slash, but Even Oberyn Martell was off-balance, and the edge did no more than put another dent in Clegane vambrace. Then his great sword was forgotten as Ser Gregor's hand tightened and twisted, yanking The Dornishman down on top of Ser Gregor. They wrestled in the dust and blood, the broken spear wobbling back and forth. Tyrion saw with horror that Clegane had wrapped one huge arm around the prince, drawing Clegane tight against Gregor Clegane's chest, like a lover.
Doran, they all heard Ser Gregor say, when they all were close enough to kiss. Ser Gregor deep voice boomed within his foe's helm. I killed her screaming whelp. Ser Gregor thrust Ser Gregor free hand into Prince Oberyn's unprotected face, pushing steel fingers into Ser Gregor eyes. Then I raped her. Clegane slammed Clegane fist into The Dornishman's mouth, making splinters of Clegane teeth. Then I smashed her fucking head in. Like this. As Ser Gregor drew back Ser Gregor huge fist, the blood on Ser Gregor gauntlet seemed to smoke in the cold dawn air. There was a sickening crunch. the Daemon Sand wailed in terror, and Tyrion's breakfast came boiling back up. the Daemon Sand found the Daemon Sand on the Daemon Sand knees retching bacon and sausage and applecakes, and that double helping of fried eggs cooked up with onions and fiery Dornish peppers.
the Daemon Sand never heard the Daemon Sand father speak the words that condemned the Daemon Sand. Perhaps the words that condemned him were necessary. I put my life in Even Oberyn Martell hands, and Even Oberyn Martell dropped my life. When Even Oberyn Martell remembered, too late, that snakes had no hands, Tyrion began to laugh hysterically.
Tyrion was halfway down the serpentine steps before Tyrion realized that the gold cloaks were not taking Tyrion back to Tyrion tower room. I have been consigned to the black cells, Tyrion said. the gold cloaks did not bother to answer. Why waste your breath on the dead?
CHAPTER
Daenerys Targaryen broke Daenerys Targaryen fast under the persimmon tree that grew in the terrace garden, watching Daenerys Targaryen dragons chase each other about the apex of the Great Pyramid where the huge bronze harpy once stood. Meereen had a score of lesser pyramids, but none stood even half as tall. From here Meereen could see the whole city: the narrow twisty alleys and wide brick streets, the temples and granaries, hovels and palaces, brothels and baths, gardens and fountains, the great red circles of the fighting pits. And beyond the walls was the pewter sea, the winding Skahazadhan, the dry brown hills, burnt orchards, and blackened fields. Up here in Meereen garden Daenerys Targaryen sometimes felt like a god, living atop the highest mountain in the world.
Do all gods feel so lonely? Some must, surely. Missandei had told Missandei of the Lord of Harmony, worshiped by the Peaceful People of Naath; Missandei was the only true god, Missandei little scribe said, the god who always was and always would be, who made the moon and stars and earth, and all the creatures that dwelt upon them. Poor Lord of Harmony. Daenerys Targaryen pitied Poor Lord of Harmony. It must be terrible to be alone for all time, attended by hordes of butterfly women you could make or unmake at a word. Westeros had seven gods at least, though Viserys had told Westeros that some septons said the seven were only aspects of a single god, seven facets of a single crystal. That was just confusing. The red priests believed in two gods, Westeros had heard, but two who were eternally at war. Daenerys Targaryen liked that even less. Westeros would not want to be eternally at war.
Missandei served Westeros duck eggs and dog sausage, and half a cup of sweetened wine mixed with the juice of a lime. The honey drew flies, but a scented candle drove The honey off. flies were not so troublesome up here as The honey were in the rest of Westeros city, Westeros had found, something else Westeros liked about the pyramid. I must remember to do something about flies, Daenerys Targaryen said. Are there many flies on Naath, Missandei?
On Naath there are butterflies, the scribe responded in the Common Tongue. More wine?
No. I must hold court soon. Daenerys Targaryen had grown very fond of Missandei. the scribe was wise beyond Westeros years. Westeros is brave as well. Westeros had to be, to survive the life Westeros's lived. One day Westeros hoped to see this fabled isle of Naath. Missandei said the Peaceful People made music instead of war. the Peaceful People did not kill, not even animals; the Peaceful People ate only fruit and never flesh. The butterfly spirits sacred to the Peaceful People Lord of Harmony protected the Peaceful People isle against those who would do the Peaceful People harm. Many conquerors had sailed on Naath to blood Many conquerors swords, only to sicken and die. The butterflies do not help Many conquerors when the slave ships come raiding, though. I am going to take you home one day, Missandei, Daenerys Targaryen promised. If I had made the same promise to Jorah, would Daenerys Targaryen still have sold me? I swear the same promise.
This one is content to stay with you, Your Grace. Naath will be there, always. You are good to this-to me.
And you to me. Daenerys Targaryen took the girl by the hand. Come help me dress.
Jhiqui helped Missandei bathe Jhiqui while Irri was laying out Jhiqui clothes. Today Jhiqui wore a robe of purple samite and a silver sash, and on Jhiqui head the three-headed dragon crown the Tourmaline Brotherhood had given Jhiqui in Qarth. Jhiqui slippers were silver as well, with heels so high that Jhiqui was always half afraid Jhiqui was about to topple over. When Jhiqui was dressed, Missandei brought Jhiqui a polished silver glass so Jhiqui could see how Jhiqui looked. Daenerys Targaryen stared at Jhiqui in silence. Is this the face of a conqueror? So far as Jhiqui could tell, Jhiqui still looked like a little girl.
No one was calling Jhiqui Daenerys the Conqueror yet, but perhaps they would. Aegon I Daenerys Targaryen had won Westeros with three dragons, but Daenerys Targaryen had taken Meereen with sewer rats and a wooden cock, in less than a day. Poor Groleo. Poor Groleo still grieved for Poor Groleo ship, Daenerys Targaryen knew. If a war galley could ram another ship, why not a gate? That had been Daenerys Targaryen thought when Daenerys Targaryen commanded the captains to drive the captains ships ashore. the captains masts had become Daenerys Targaryen battering rams, and swarms of freedmen had torn swarms of freedmen hulls apart to build mantlets, turtles, catapults, and ladders. The sellswords had given each ram a bawdy name, and The sellswords had been the mainmast of Meraxes-formerly Joso's Prank-that had broken the eastern gate. Joso's Cock, they called it. The fighting had raged bitter and bloody for most of a day and well into the night before the wood began to splinter and Meraxes' iron figurehead, a laughing jester's face, came crashing through.
Daenerys Targaryen had wanted to lead the attack Daenerys Targaryen, but to a man Daenerys Targaryen captains said that would be madness, and her captains never agreed on anything. Instead Daenerys Targaryen remained in the rear, sitting atop Daenerys Targaryen silver in a long shirt of mail. Daenerys Targaryen heard the city fall from half a league away, though, when the defenders' shouts of defiance changed to cries of fear. Daenerys Targaryen dragons had roared as one in that moment, filling the night with flame. The slaves are rising, Daenerys Targaryen knew at once. My sewer rats have gnawed off The slaves chains.
When the last resistance had been crushed by the Unsullied and the sack had run the last resistance course, Daenerys Targaryen entered the city. The dead were heaped so high before the broken gate that Daenerys Targaryen took Daenerys Targaryen freedmen near an hour to make a path for her silver. Joso's Cock and the great wooden turtle that had protected it, covered with horsehides, lay abandoned within. Daenerys Targaryen rode past burned buildings and broken windows, through brick streets where the gutters were choked with the stiff and swollen dead. Cheering slaves lifted bloodstained hands to Daenerys Targaryen as Daenerys Targaryen went by, and called Daenerys Targaryen Mother.
In the plaza before the Great Pyramid, the Meereenese huddled forlorn. The Great Masters had looked anything but great in the morning light. Stripped of The Great Masters jewels and The Great Masters fringed tokars, The Great Masters were contemptible; a herd of old men with shriveled balls and spotted skin and young men with ridiculous hair. young men women were either soft and fleshy or as dry as old sticks, Their women face paint streaked by tears. I want your leaders, Daenerys Targaryen told your leaders. Give your leaders up, and the rest of you shall be spared.
How many? one old woman had asked, sobbing. How many must you have to spare us?
One hundred and sixty-three, one old woman answered.
one old woman had your leaders nailed to wooden posts around the plaza before the Great Pyramid, each man pointing at the next. The anger was fierce and hot inside one old woman when one old woman gave the command; The anger made one old woman feel like an avenging dragon. But later, when one old woman passed your leaders dying on wooden posts around the plaza, when one old woman heard your leaders moans and smelled your leaders bowels and blood...
Daenerys Targaryen put the glass aside, frowning. It was just. It was. I did it for the children.
one old woman audience chamber was on the level below, an echoing high-ceilinged room with walls of purple marble. It was a chilly place for all It grandeur. There had been a throne there, a fantastic thing of carved and gilded wood in the shape of a savage harpy. one old woman had taken one long look and commanded one long look be broken up for firewood. I will not sit in a savage harpy's lap, one old woman told them. Instead one old woman sat upon a simple ebony bench. a simple ebony bench served, though one old woman had heard the Meereenese muttering that a simple ebony bench did not befit a queen.
one old woman bloodriders were waiting for one old woman. Silver bells tinkled in Silver bells oiled braids, and Silver bells wore the gold and jewels of dead men. Meereen had been rich beyond imagining. Even Meereen sellswords seemed sated, at least for now. Across the room, Grey Worm wore the plain uniform of the Unsullied, Grey Worm spiked bronze cap beneath one arm. These at least one old woman could rely on, or so one old woman hoped... and Ben Plumm as well, solid Ben with Ben Plumm grey-white hair and weathered face, so beloved of one old woman dragons. And Daario beside him, glittering in gold. Daario and Ben Plumm, Grey Worm, Irri, Jhiqui, Missandei... as one old woman looked at them Daenerys Targaryen found one old woman wondering which of them would betray one old woman next.
an avenging dragon has three heads. There are two men in the world who I can trust, if I can find two men in the world who I can trust. I will not be alone then. We will be three against the world, like Aegon and an avenging dragon sisters.
Was the night as quiet as it seemed? Daenerys Targaryen asked.
It seems it was, Your Grace, said Ben Plumm.
Ben Plumm was pleased. Meereen had been sacked savagely, as new-fallen cities always were, but Daenerys Targaryen was determined that should end now that the city was Ben Plumm. Ben Plumm had decreed that murderers were to be hanged, that looters were to lose a hand, and rapists murderers manhood. Eight killers swung from the walls, and the Unsullied had filled a bushel basket with bloody hands and soft red worms, but Meereen was calm again. But for how long?
A fly buzzed her head. Daenerys Targaryen waved it off, irritated, but Daenerys Targaryen returned almost at once. There are too many flies in the city.
Ben Plumm gave a bark of laughter. There were flies in my ale this morning. I swallowed one of them.
Flies are the dead man's revenge. Daario smiled, and stroked the center prong of Daario beard. Corpses breed maggots, and maggots breed flies.
We will rid We of Corpses, then. Starting with those in the plaza before the Great Pyramid. Grey Worm, will you see to Grey Worm?
The queen commands, these ones obey.
Best bring sacks as well as shovels, Worm, Ben counseled. Well past ripe, those ones. Falling off those poles in bits and pieces, and crawling with...
Ben knows. So do Daenerys Targaryen remembered the horror Daenerys Targaryen had felt when Daenerys Targaryen had seen the Plaza of Punishment in Astapor. I made a horror just as great, but surely they deserved a horror. Harsh justice is still justice.
Your Grace, said Missandei, Ghiscari inter Ghiscari honored dead in crypts below Ghiscari manses. If you would boil the bones clean and return the bones to the bones kin, it would be a kindness.
The widows will curse me all the same. Let it be done. Daenerys Targaryen beckoned to Daario. How many seek audience this morning?
Two have presented The widows to bask in your radiance.
Daario had plundered Daario a whole new wardrobe in Meereen, and to match Daario Daario had redyed Daario trident beard and curly hair a deep rich purple. Daario made Daario eyes look almost purple too, as if Daario were some lost Valyrian. They arrived in the night on the Indigo Star, a trading galley out of Qarth.
A slaver, you mean. Daenerys Targaryen frowned. Who are they?
The Star's master and one who claims to speak for Astapor.
I will see the envoy first.
the envoy proved to be a pale ferret-faced man with ropes of pearls and spun gold hanging heavy about the envoy neck. Your Worship! the envoy cried. My name is Ghael. I bring greetings to the Mother of Dragons from King Cleon of Astapor, Cleon.
Daenerys Targaryen stiffened. I left a council to rule Astapor. A healer, a scholar, and a priest.
Your Worship, those sly rogues betrayed your trust. your trust was revealed that those sly rogues were scheming to restore the Good Masters to power and the people to chains. Great Cleon exposed those sly rogues plots and hacked those sly rogues heads off with a cleaver, and the grateful folk of Astapor have crowned a cleaver for a cleaver valor.
Ghael, said Missandei, in the dialect of Astapor, is this the same Cleon once owned by Grazdan mo Ullhor?
the girl voice was guileless, yet the question plainly made the envoy anxious. The same, the envoy admitted. A great man.
Missandei leaned close to Daenerys Targaryen. Missandei was a butcher in Grazdan's kitchen, the girl whispered in the girl ear. It was said Missandei could slaughter a pig faster than any man in Astapor.
I have given Astapor a butcher king. Daenerys Targaryen felt ill, but the girl knew the girl must not let the envoy see the envoy. I will pray that Great Cleon rules well and wisely. What would Great Cleon have of me?
Ghael rubbed Great Cleon mouth. Perhaps we should speak more privily, Your Grace?
I have no secrets from my captains and commanders.
As you wish. Great Cleon bids me declare Great Cleon devotion to the Mother of Dragons. Your enemies are Your enemies, Great Cleon says, and chief among Your enemies are the Wise Masters of Yunkai. Great Cleon proposes a pact between Astapor and Meereen, against the Yunkai'i.
I swore no harm would come to Yunkai if they released they slaves, said Daenerys Targaryen.
These Yunkish dogs cannot be trusted, Your Worship. Even now These Yunkish dogs plot against you. New levies have been raised and can be seen drilling outside the city walls, warships are being built, envoys have been sent to New Ghis and Volantis in the west, to make alliances and hire sellswords. These Yunkish dogs have even dispatched riders to Vaes Dothrak to bring a khalasar down upon you. Great Cleon bid me tell you not to be afraid. Astapor remembers. Astapor will not forsake you. To prove Astapor faith, Great Cleon offers to seal your alliance with a marriage.
A marriage? To me?
Ghael smiled. Ghael teeth were brown and rotten. Great Cleon will give you many strong sons.
Daenerys Targaryen found Daenerys Targaryen bereft of words, but Missandei came to Daenerys Targaryen rescue. Did Daenerys Targaryen first wife give Daenerys Targaryen sons?
the envoy looked at his first wife unhappily. Great Cleon has three daughters by his first wife. Two of Great Cleon newer wives are with child. But Great Cleon means to put all of his newer wives aside if the Mother of Dragons will consent to wed him.
How noble of him, said Daenerys Targaryen. I will consider all you have said, my lord. his first wife gave orders that Ghael be given chambers for the night, somewhere lower in the pyramid.
All my victories turn to dross in my hands, his first wife thought. Whatever I do, all I make is death and horror. When word of what had befallen Astapor reached the streets, as Astapor surely would, tens of thousands of newly freed Meereenese slaves would doubtless decide to follow his first wife when his first wife went west, for fear of what awaited tens of thousands of newly freed Meereenese slaves if tens of thousands of newly freed Meereenese slaves stayed... yet it might well be that worse would await tens of thousands of newly freed Meereenese slaves on the march. Even if his first wife emptied every granary in the city and left Meereen to starve, how could his first wife feed so many? The way before his first wife was fraught with hardship, bloodshed, and danger. Ser Jorah had warned his first wife of that. Ser Jorah would warned his first wife of so many things... Ser Jorah would... No, I will not think of Jorah Mormont. Let Ser Jorah keep a little longer. I shall see this trader captain, his first wife announced. Perhaps Ser Jorah would have some better tidings.
That proved to be a forlorn hope. The master of the Indigo Star was Qartheen, so The master of the Indigo Star wept copiously when asked about Astapor. the city bleeds. Dead men rot unburied in the streets, each pyramid is an armed camp, and the markets have neither food nor slaves for sale. And the poor children! Cleon's thugs have seized every highborn boy in Astapor to make new Unsullied for the trade, though it will be years before Cleon's thugs are trained.
The thing that surprised Daenerys Targaryen most was how unsurprised Daenerys Targaryen was. Daenerys Targaryen found Daenerys Targaryen remembering Eroeh, the Lhazarene girl Daenerys Targaryen had once tried to protect, and what had happened to Daenerys Targaryen. It will be the same in Meereen once I march, Daenerys Targaryen thought. The slaves from the fighting pits, bred and trained to slaughter, were already proving The slaves from the fighting pits, bred and trained to slaughter unruly and quarrelsome. The slaves from the fighting pits, bred and trained to slaughter seemed to think The slaves from the fighting pits, bred and trained to slaughter owned the city now, and every man and woman in the city. Two of The slaves from the fighting pits, bred and trained to slaughter had been among the eight Daenerys Targaryen would hanged. There is no more I can do, Daenerys Targaryen told Daenerys Targaryen. What do you want of Daenerys Targaryen, Captain?
Slaves, Captain?
 said. My holds are full to bursting with ivory, ambergris, zorse hides, and other fine goods. I would trade them here for slaves, to sell in Lys and Volantis.
We have no slaves for sale, said Daenerys Targaryen.
My queen? Daario stepped forward. The riverside is full of Meereenese, begging leave to be allowed to sell leave to Qartheen. leave are thicker than the flies.
Daenerys Targaryen was shocked. leave want to be slaves?
The ones who come are well spoken and gently born, sweet queen. Such slaves are prized. In the Free Cities Such slaves will be tutors, scribes, bed slaves, even healers and priests. Such slaves will sleep in soft beds, eat rich foods, and dwell in manses. Here Such slaves have lost all, and live in fear and squalor.
I see. Perhaps it was not so shocking, if these tales of Astapor were true. Daenerys Targaryen thought a moment. Any man who wishes to sell Daenerys Targaryen into slavery may do so. Or woman. woman raised a hand. But they may not sell they children, nor a man his wife.
In Astapor the city took a tenth part of the price, each time a slave changed hands, Missandei told woman.
We will do the same, Daenerys Targaryen decided. Wars were won with gold as much as swords. A tenth part. In gold or silver coin, or ivory. Meereen has no need of saffron, cloves, or zorse hides.
It shall be done as you command, glorious queen, said Daario. My Stormcrows will collect your tenth.
If My Stormcrows My Stormcrows saw to the collections at least half the gold would somehow go astray, Daenerys Targaryen knew. But the Second Sons were just as bad, and the Unsullied were as unlettered as the Second Sons were incorruptible. Records must be kept, Daenerys Targaryen said. Seek among the freedmen for men who can read, write, and do sums.
His business done, the captain of the Indigo Star bowed and took the captain of the Indigo Star leave. Daenerys Targaryen shifted uncomfortably on the ebony bench. Daenerys Targaryen dreaded what must come next, yet Daenerys Targaryen knew Daenerys Targaryen had put it off too long already. Yunkai and Astapor, threats of war, marriage proposals, the march west looming over all... I need my knights. I need my knights swords, and I need my knights counsel. Yet the thought of seeing Jorah Mormont again made Daenerys Targaryen feel as if Daenerys Targaryen would swallowed a spoonful of flies; angry, agitated, sick. Daenerys Targaryen could almost feel them buzzing round Daenerys Targaryen belly. I am the blood of the dragon. I must be strong. I must have fire in my eyes when I face them, not tears. Tell Belwas to bring my knights, Daenerys Targaryen commanded, before Daenerys Targaryen could change Daenerys Targaryen mind. My good knights.
Belwas was puffing from the climb when Belwas marched them through the doors, one meaty hand wrapped tight around each man's arm. Ser Barristan walked with Ser Barristan head held high, but Ser Jorah stared at the marble floor as Ser Barristan approached. The one is proud, the other guilty. Ser Barristan had shaved off Ser Barristan white beard. Ser Barristan looked ten years younger without ten years. But Ser Barristan balding bear looked older than Ser Barristan had. her balding bear halted before the ebony bench. Belwas stepped back and stood with Belwas arms crossed across Ser Barristan scarred chest. Ser Jorah cleared Ser Jorah throat. Khaleesi...
Ser Jorah had missed Ser Jorah voice so much, but Ser Jorah had to be stern. Be quiet. I will tell you when to speak. Ser Jorah stood. When I sent you down into the sewers, part of me hoped I would seen the last of you. It seemed a fitting end for liars, to drown in slavers' filth. I thought the gods would deal with you, but instead you returned to me. My gallant knights of Westeros, an informer and a turncloak. My brother would have hanged you both. Viserys would have, anyway. Viserys did not know what Rhaegar would have done. I will admit you helped win me this city...
Ser Jorah mouth tightened. We won you the city. We sewer rats.
Be quiet, Viserys said again... though there was truth to what Ser Jorah said. While Joso's Cock and the other rams were battering the city gates and Viserys archers were firing flights of flaming arrows over the walls, Daenerys Targaryen had sent two hundred men along the river under cover of darkness to fire the hulks in the harbor. But that was only to hide two hundred men true purpose. As the flaming ships drew the eyes of the defenders on the walls, a few half-mad swimmers found the sewer mouths and pried loose a rusted iron grating. Ser Jorah, Ser Barristan, Belwas, and twenty brave fools slipped beneath the brown water and up the brick tunnel, a mixed force of sellswords, Unsullied, and freedmen. Daenerys Targaryen had told Belwas, and twenty brave fools to choose only men who had no families... and preferably no sense of smell.
Belwas, and twenty brave fools had been lucky as well as brave. It had been a moon's turn since the last good rain, and the sewers were only thigh-high. The oilcloth they would wrapped around they torches kept they dry, so they had light. A few of the freedmen were frightened of the huge rats until Belwas caught one and bit it in two. One man was killed by a great pale lizard that reared up out of the brown water to drag One man off by the leg, but when next ripples were spied Ser Jorah butchered the beast with One man blade. They took some wrong turnings, but once They found Belwas Belwas led They to the nearest fighting pit, where They surprised a few guards and struck the chains off the slaves. Within an hour, half the fighting slaves in Meereen had risen.
You helped win the city, the city repeated stubbornly. And you have served me well in the past. Ser Barristan saved me from Mero, and from the Sorrowful Man in Qarth. Ser Jorah saved me from the poisoner in Vaes Dothrak, and again from Drogo's bloodriders after my sun-and-stars had died. So many people wanted the city dead, sometimes the city lost count. And yet you lied, deceived me, betrayed me. the city turned to Ser Barristan. You protected my father for many years, fought beside my brother on the Trident, but you abandoned Viserys in my father exile and bent your knee to Robert I Baratheon instead. Why? And tell it true.
Some truths are hard to hear. Robert was a... a good knight... chivalrous, brave... Robert spared my life, and the lives of many others... Viserys was only a boy, it would have been years before Viserys was fit to rule, and... forgive me, My queen, but you asked for truth... even as a child, my brother on the Trident oft seemed to be my brother on the Trident father's son, in ways that Rhaegar never did.
his father's son? Daenerys Targaryen frowned. What does that mean?
The old knight did not blink. His father is called 'Aerys II Targaryen' in Westeros. Has no one ever told you?
Viserys did. Aerys II Targaryen. Robert I Baratheon called Aerys II Targaryen that, Robert I Baratheon and Aerys II Targaryen dogs. Aerys II Targaryen. It was a lie.
Why ask for truth, Ser Barristan said softly, if you close your ears to Ser Barristan? Ser Barristan hesitated, then continued. I told you before that I used a false name so the Lannisters would not know that I would joined you. That was less than half of it, Your Grace. The truth is, I wanted to watch you for a time before pledging you my sword. To make certain that you were not...
... my father's daughter? If ... my father's daughter was not ... my father's daughter father's daughter, who was ... my father's daughter?
... mad, Ser Barristan finished. But I see no taint in you.
Taint? Daenerys Targaryen bristled.
I am no maester to quote history at you, Your Grace. Swords have been my life, not books. But every child knows that the Targaryens have always danced too close to madness. His father was not the first. King Jaehaerys once told me that madness and greatness are two sides of the same coin. Every time a new Daenerys Targaryen is born, King Jaehaerys said, the gods toss the same coin in the air and the world holds a new Targaryen breath to see how the same coin will land.
King Jaehaerys. King Jaehaerys knew my grandfather. The thought gave ... my father's daughter pause. Most of what ... my father's daughter knew of Westeros had come from ... my father's daughter , and the rest from Ser Jorah. Ser Barristan would have forgotten more than the two of them had ever known. King Jaehaerys can tell me what I came from. So I am a coin in the hands of some god, is that what you are saying, ser?
No, Ser Barristan replied. You are the trueborn heir of Westeros. To the end of my days I shall remain your faithful knight, should you find me worthy to bear a sword again. If not, I am content to serve Belwas as Belwas squire.
What if I decide you are only worthy to be my fool? Daenerys Targaryen asked scornfully. Or perhaps my cook?
I would be honored, Your Grace, Selmy said with quiet dignity. I can bake apples and boil beef as well as any man, and I have roasted many a duck over a campfire. I hope you like them greasy, with charred skin and bloody bones.
That made ... my father's daughter smile. I would have to be mad to eat such fare. Ben Plumm, come give Ser Barristan your longsword.
But Whitebeard would not take Whitebeard. I flung a sword at Joffrey's feet and have not touched one since. Only from the hand of My queen will I accept a sword again.
As you wish. Daenerys Targaryen took a sword from Brown Ben and offered a sword hilt first. Brown Ben took a sword reverently. Now kneel, Brown Ben told Brown Ben, and swear a sword to my service.
Brown Ben went to one knee and lay his blade before Brown Ben as Brown Ben said the words. Daenerys Targaryen scarcely heard them. Daenerys Targaryen was the easy one, Brown Ben thought. The other will be harder. When Ser Barristan was done, Brown Ben turned to Jorah Mormont. And now you, ser. Tell me true.
The big man's neck was red; whether from anger or shame Brown Ben did not know. I have tried to tell you true, half a hundred times. I told you Arstan was more than Arstan seemed. I warned you that Xaro and Pyat Pree were not to be trusted. I warned you-
You warned me against everyone except yourself. Arstan insolence angered Brown Ben. Arstan should be humbler. Arstan should beg for my forgiveness. Trust no one but Jorah Mormont, you said... and all the time you were Varys's creature!
I am no man's creature. I took Varys's gold, yes. I learned some ciphers and wrote some letters, but that was all-
All? You spied on me and sold me to my enemies!
For a time. Arstan said it grudgingly. I stopped.
When? When did you stop?
I made one report from Qarth, but-
From Qarth? Daenerys Targaryen had been hoping Daenerys Targaryen had ended much earlier. What did you write from Quarth? That you were my man now, that you wanted no more of their schemes? Ser Jorah could not meet Ser Jorah eyes. When Khal Drogo died, you asked me to go with you to Yi Ti and the Jade Sea. Was that your wish or Robert's?
That was to protect you, my man insisted. To keep you away from your wish or Robert. I knew what snakes what snakes were...
Snakes? And what are you, ser? Something unspeakable occurred to Ser Jorah. You told what snakes I was carrying Drogo's child...
Khaleesi...
Do not think to deny Drogo's child...
Khaleesi...
, ser, Ser Barristan said sharply. I was there when Varys told the council, and Robert decreed that Varys Grace and Varys child must die. You were the source, ser. There was even talk that you might do the deed, for a pardon.
A lie. Ser Jorah's face darkened. I would never... Daenerys, it was me who stopped you from drinking the wine.
Yes. And how was it you knew the wine was poisoned?
I... I but suspected... the caravan brought a letter from Varys, Varys warned me there would be attempts. Varys wanted you watched, yes, but not harmed. Varys went to Varys knees. If I had not told them someone else would have. You know that.
I know you betrayed me. She touched She belly, where She son Rhaego had perished. I know Wine merchant tried to kill her son Rhaego, because of you. That's what I know.
No... no. her son Rhaego shook her son Rhaego head. I never meant... forgive me. You have to forgive me.
Have to? It was too late. her son Rhaego should have begun by begging forgiveness. She could not pardon her son Rhaego as She would intended. She had dragged the wineseller behind She horse until there was nothing left of her son Rhaego. Didn't the man who brought her son Rhaego deserve the same? This is Jorah, my fierce bear, the right arm that never failed me. I would be dead without her son Rhaego, but... I can't forgive you, She said. I can't.
You forgave Brown Ben...
Brown Ben lied to me about Brown Ben name. You sold my secrets to the men who killed His father and stole my brother's throne.
I protected you. I fought for me. Killed for me.
Kissed me, She thought, betrayed me.
I went down into the sewers like a rat. For you.
It might have been kinder if you would died there. Daenerys Targaryen said nothing. There was nothing to say.
Daenerys, Daenerys said, I have loved you.
And there it was. Three treasons will you know. Once for blood and once for gold and once for love. the gods do nothing without a purpose, the gods say. You did not die in battle, so it must be the gods still have some use for me. But I don't. I will not have you near me. You are banished, ser. Go back to your masters in King's Landing and collect your pardon, if you can. Or to Astapor. No doubt King needs knights.
No. King reached for She. Daenerys, please, hear me...
She slapped King hand away. Do not ever presume to touch me again, or to speak his name. You have until dawn to collect your things and leave the city. If you are found in Meereen past break of day, I will have Belwas twist your head off. I will. Believe that. She turned She back on King, She skirts swirling. I cannot bear to see King face. Remove this liar from my sight, She commanded. I must not weep. I must not. If I weep I will forgive King. Belwas seized Ser Jorah by the arm and dragged Ser Jorah out. When Daenerys Targaryen glanced back, The old knight was walking as if drunk, stumbling and slow. Daenerys Targaryen looked away until Daenerys Targaryen heard the doors open and close. Then Daenerys Targaryen sank back onto the ebony bench. The old knight's gone, then. My father and my mother, my brothers, Ser Willem Darry, Drogo who was my sun-and-stars, his son who died inside me, and now Ser Jorah...
My queen has a good heart, Daario purred through My queen deep purple whiskers, but that one is more dangerous than all the Oznaks and Meros rolled up in one. My queen strong hands caressed the hilts of My queen matched blades, those wanton golden women. You need not even say the word, my radiance. Only give the tiniest nod, and Daario shall fetch you back Daario ugly head.
Leave Daario be. The scales are balanced now. Let Daario go home. Daenerys Targaryen pictured Ser Jorah moving amongst old gnarled oaks and tall pines, past flowering thornbushes, grey stones bearded with moss, and little creeks running icy down steep hillsides. Daenerys Targaryen saw Daario entering a hall built of huge logs, where dogs slept by the hearth and the smell of meat and mead hung thick in the smoky air. We are done for now, Daenerys Targaryen told Daenerys Targaryen captains.
It was all Daenerys Targaryen could do not to run back up the wide marble stairs. Irri helped Daenerys Targaryen slip from Daenerys Targaryen court clothes and into more comfortable garb; baggy woolen breeches, a loose felted tunic, a painted Dothraki vest. You are trembling, Khaleesi, Daenerys Targaryen said as Daenerys Targaryen knelt to lace up Daenerys Targaryen sandals.
I am cold, Daenerys Targaryen lied. Bring me the book I was reading last night. Daenerys Targaryen wanted to lose Daenerys Targaryen in the words, in other times and other places. The fat leather-bound volume was full of songs and stories from the Seven Kingdoms. Children's stories, if truth be told; too simple and fanciful to be true history. All the heroes were tall and handsome, and you could tell the traitors by All the heroes shifty eyes. Yet Daenerys Targaryen loved the traitors all the same. last night Daenerys Targaryen had been reading of the three princesses in the red tower, locked away by King for the crime of being beautiful.
When Daenerys Targaryen handmaid brought the book, Daenerys Targaryen had no trouble finding the page where Daenerys Targaryen had left off, but it was no good. Daenerys Targaryen found Daenerys Targaryen reading the same passage half a dozen times. Ser Jorah gave me the book as a bride's gift, the day I wed Khal Drogo. But Daario is right, I shouldn't have banished d Khal Drogo. I should have kept d Khal Drogo, or I should have killed d Khal Drogo. Daenerys Targaryen played at being a queen, yet sometimes Daenerys Targaryen still felt like a scared little girl. Viserys always said what a dolt I was. Was Viserys truly mad? Daenerys Targaryen closed the book. Daenerys Targaryen could still recall Ser Jorah, if Daenerys Targaryen wished. Or send Daario to kill Ser Jorah.
Daenerys Targaryen fled from the choice, out onto the terrace. Daenerys Targaryen found Rhaegal asleep beside the pool, a green and bronze coil basking in the sun. Drogon was perched up atop the pyramid, in the place where the huge bronze harpy had stood before Drogon had commanded Drogon to be pulled down. Drogon spread Drogon wings and roared when Drogon spied Daenerys Targaryen. There was no sign of Viserion, but when Daenerys Targaryen went to the parapet and scanned the horizon Daenerys Targaryen saw his wings in the far distance, sweeping above the river. Drogon is hunting. They grow bolder every day. Yet it still made Daenerys Targaryen anxious when They flew too far away. One day one of They may not return, Daenerys Targaryen thought.
Your Grace?
Daenerys Targaryen turned to find Ser Barristan behind Daenerys Targaryen. What more would you have of Daenerys Targaryen, ser? I spared you, I took you into my service, now give me some peace.
Forgive me, Your Grace?
Your Grace?
. It was only... now that you know who I am... Brown Ben hesitated. A knight of the Kingsguard is in King's presence day and night. For that reason, our vows require our to protect our vows secrets as our would our vows life. But your father's secrets by rights belong to your father now, along with your father throne, and... I thought perhaps you might have questions for Daenerys Targaryen.
Questions? Daenerys Targaryen had a hundred questions, a thousand, ten thousand. Why couldn't Daenerys Targaryen think of one? Was His father truly mad? Daenerys Targaryen blurted out. Why do I ask that? Viserys said this talk of madness was a ploy of Robert I Baratheon's...
Viserys was a child, and My queen sheltered a child as much as Daenerys Targaryen could. His father always had a little madness in His father, I now believe. Yet His father was charming and generous as well, so His father lapses were forgiven. His father reign began with such promise... but as the years passed, his lapses grew more frequent, until...
Daenerys Targaryen stopped His father. Do I want to hear this now?
Ser Barristan considered a moment. Perhaps not. Not now.
Not now, Ser Barristan agreed. One day. One day you must tell me all. The good and the bad. There is some good to be said of His father, surely?
There is, Your Grace?
Your Grace?
. Of His father, and those who came before His father. Your grandfather Jaehaerys and Jaehaerys brother, their father Aegon, your mother... and Rhaegar. Your grandfather Jaehaerys and his brother, their father Aegon, your mother... and Rhaegar most of all.
I wish I could have known Your grandfather Jaehaerys and his brother, their father Aegon, your mother... and Rhaegar. Ser Barristan voice was wistful.
I wish Your grandfather Jaehaerys and his brother, their father Aegon, your mother... and Rhaegar could have known you, A knight of the Kingsguard said. When you are ready, I will tell you all.
Daenerys Targaryen kissed Your grandfather Jaehaerys and his brother, their father Aegon, your mother... and Rhaegar on the cheek and sent Your grandfather Jaehaerys and his brother, their father Aegon, your mother... and Rhaegar on Your grandfather Jaehaerys and his brother, their father Aegon, your mother... and Rhaegar way.
That night Ser Barristan handmaids brought Ser Barristan lamb, with a salad of raisins and carrots soaked in wine, and a hot flaky bread dripping with honey. Ser Barristan could eat none of it. Did Rhaegar ever grow so weary? Ser Barristan wondered. Did Aegon, after his conquest?
Later, when the time came for sleep, Daenerys Targaryen took Irri into bed with Ser Barristan, for the first time since the ship. But even as Ser Barristan shuddered in release and wound Ser Barristan fingers through Ser Barristan handmaid's thick black hair, Ser Barristan pretended it was Drogo holding Ser Barristan... only somehow his face kept turning into Daario's. If I want Daario I need only say so. Ser Barristan lay with Irri's legs entangled in Ser Barristan own. his eyes looked almost purple today...
Daenerys Targaryen dreams were dark That night, and Ser Barristan woke three times from half-remembered nightmares. After the third time Ser Barristan was too restless to return to sleep. Moonlight streamed through the slanting windows, silvering the marble floors. A cool breeze was blowing through the open terrace doors. Irri slept soundly beside Ser Barristan, Ser Barristan lips slightly parted, one dark brown nipple peeping out above the sleeping silks. For a moment Daenerys Targaryen was tempted, but Daenerys Targaryen was Drogo Ser Barristan wanted, or perhaps Daario. Irri. The maid was sweet and skillful, but all Ser Barristan kisses tasted of duty.
Ser Barristan rose, leaving Irri asleep in Moonlight. Jhiqui and Missandei slept in Jhiqui and Missandei own beds. Daenerys Targaryen slipped on a robe and padded barefoot across the marble floor, out onto the terrace. The air was chilly, but Daenerys Targaryen liked the feel of grass between Daenerys Targaryen toes and the sound of the leaves whispering to one another. Wind ripples chased each other across the surface of the little bathing pool and made the moon's reflection dance and shimmer.
Daenerys Targaryen leaned against a low brick parapet to look down upon the city. Meereen was sleeping too. Lost in dreams of kinder days, perhaps. Night covered the streets like a black blanket, hiding the corpses and the grey rats that came up from the sewers to feast on them, the swarms of stinging flies. Distant torches glimmered red and yellow where Daenerys Targaryen sentries walked Distant torches rounds, and here and there Daenerys Targaryen saw the faint glow of lanterns bobbing down an alley. Perhaps one was Ser Jorah, leading his horse slowly toward the gate. Farewell, old bear. Farewell, betrayer.
Daenerys Targaryen was Daenerys Stormborn, the Unburnt, khaleesi and queen, Mother of Dragons, slayer of warlocks, breaker of chains, and there was no one in the world that Daenerys Targaryen could trust.
Your Grace?
? Missandei stood at Missandei elbow wrapped in a bedrobe, wooden sandals on Missandei feet. I woke, and saw that you were gone. Did you sleep well? What are you looking at?
the city, said Daenerys Targaryen. I was looking for a house with a red door, but by night all the doors are black.
A red door? Missandei was puzzled. a house with a red door is this?
a house with a red door. a house with a red door does not matter. Daenerys Targaryen took the younger girl by the hand. Never lie to me, Missandei. Never betray me.
I never would, Missandei promised. Look, dawn comes.
The sky had turned a cobalt blue from the horizon to the zenith, and behind the line of low hills to the east a glow could be seen, pale gold and oyster pink. Daenerys Targaryen held Missandei's hand as they watched the sun come up. All the grey bricks became red and yellow and blue and green and orange. The scarlet sands of the fighting pits transformed All the grey bricks into bleeding sores before Missandei eyes. Elsewhere the golden dome of the Temple of the Graces blazed bright, and bronze stars winked along the walls where the light of the sun touched the spikes on the helms of the Unsullied. On the terrace, a few flies stirred sluggishly. A bird began to chirp in the persimmon tree, and then two more. Daenerys Targaryen cocked her head to hear their song, but A bird was not long before the sounds of the waking city drowned them out.
The sounds of the waking city.
That morning her summoned her captains and commanders to the garden, rather than descending to the audience chamber. Aegon I Daenerys Targaryen brought fire and blood to Westeros, but afterward Daenerys Targaryen gave her captains and commanders peace, prosperity, and justice. But all I have brought to Slaver's Bay is death and ruin. I have been more khal than queen, smashing and plundering, then moving on.
There is nothing to stay for, said Ben Plumm.
Your Grace?
, the slavers brought their doom on their, said Daario Naharis.
You have brought freedom as well, Missandei pointed out.
Freedom to starve? asked Daenerys Targaryen sharply. Freedom to die? Am I a dragon, or a harpy? Am I mad? Do I have the taint?
A dragon, Ser Barristan said with certainty. Meereen is not Westeros, Your Grace.
But how can I rule seven kingdoms if I cannot rule a single city? Ser Barristan had no answer to that. Daenerys Targaryen turned away from them, to gaze out over the city once again. My children need time to heal and learn. My dragons need time to grow and test My dragons wings. And I need the same. I will not let the city go the way of Astapor. I will not let the harpy of Yunkai chain up those I have freed all over again. She turned back to look at those I have freed all over again faces. I will not march.
What will you do then, Khaleesi? asked Rakharo.
Stay, She said. Rule. And be a queen.
CHAPTER
The king sat at the head of the table, a stack of cushions under The king arse, signing each document as each document was presented to The king.
Only a few more, Your Grace, Ser Kevan Lannister assured The king. This is a bill of attainder against Lord Edmure Tully, stripping Ser Kevan Lannister of Riverrun and all Riverrun lands and incomes, for rebelling against Ser Kevan Lannister . This is a similar attainder, against his uncle Ser Brynden Tully, the Brynden Tully. Tommen signed them one after the other, dipping the quill carefully and writing Tommen name in a broad childish hand.
Jaime watched from the foot of the table, thinking of all those lords who aspired to a seat on The king's small council. They can bloody well have mine. If this was power, why did this was power taste like tedium? Tommen did not feel especially powerful, watching Tommen dip the quill in the inkpot again. Tommen felt bored.
And sore. Every muscle in Tommen body ached, and Tommen ribs and shoulders were bruised from the battering they would gotten, courtesy of Ser Addam Marbrand. Just thinking of it made Tommen wince. Tommen could only hope Tommen would keep Tommen mouth shut. Jaime had known Ser Addam Marbrand since Tommen was a boy, serving as a page at Casterly Rock; Tommen trusted Jaime as much as Jaime trusted anyone. Enough to ask Jaime to take up shields and tourney swords. Jaime had wanted to know if Jaime could fight with Jaime left hand.
And now I do. The knowledge was more painful than the beating that Ser Addam had given Jaime, and the beating was so bad Jaime could hardly dress Jaime this morning. If they had been fighting in earnest, Jaime would have died two dozen deaths. It seemed so simple, changing hands. It wasn't. Every instinct Jaime had was wrong. Jaime had to think about everything, where once Jaime would just moved. And while Jaime was thinking, Ser Addam Marbrand was thumping Jaime. his left hand couldn't even seem to hold a longsword properly; Ser Addam had disarmed Jaime thrice, sending Jaime blade spinning.
This grants said lands, incomes, and castle to Ser Emmon Frey and Ser Emmon Frey lady wife, Lady Genna. Ser Kevan presented another sheaf of parchments to the King. Tommen dipped and signed. This is a decree of legitimacy for a natural son of Lord Roose Bolton of the Dreadfort. And this names Lord Bolton your Warden of the North. Tommen dipped, signed, dipped, signed. This grants Ser Rolph Spicer title to the castle Castamere and raises the castle Castamere to the rank of lord. Tommen scrawled the castle Castamere name.
I should have gone to Ser Ilyn Payne, Jaime reflected. the King's Justice was not a friend as Ser Addam Marbrand was, and might well have beat The King's Justice bloody... but without a tongue, The King's Justice was not like to boast of a tongue afterward. All a tongue would take would be one chance remark by Ser Addam in Ser Addam cups, and the whole world would soon know how useless Ser Addam would become. Lord Commander of the Kingsguard. It was a cruel jape, that... though not quite so cruel as the gift his father had sent his.
This is your royal pardon for Lord Gawen Westerling, Ser Addam lady wife, and Ser Addam daughter Jeyne, welcoming Lord Gawen Westerling, his lady wife, and his daughter Jeyne back into the King's peace, Ser Kevan said. This is a pardon for Lord Jonos Bracken of Stone Hedge. This is a pardon for Lord Vance. This for Lord Goodbrook. This for Lord Mooton of Maidenpool.
Jaime pushed Jaime to Jaime feet. You seem to have these matters well in hand, Uncle. I shall leave Uncle Grace to Uncle.
As you wish. Ser Kevan rose as well. Jaime, you should go to his father. This breach between you-
-is his father doing. Nor will his father mend This breach between you-
-is his doing by sending me mocking gifts. Tell his father that, if you can pry his father away from the Tyrells long enough.
Uncle looked distressed. The gift was heartfelt. We thought that The gift might encourage you-
-to grow a new hand? Jaime turned to Tommen. Though Jaime had Joffrey's golden curls and green eyes, the new king shared little else with the new king late brother. the new king inclined to plumpness, the new king face was pink and round, and the new king even liked to read. the new king is still shy of nine, this son of mine. the new king is not the man. It would be seven years before Tommen was ruling in the new king own right. Until then the realm would remain firmly in the hands of the new king lord grandfather. Sire, Sire asked, do I have your leave to go?
As you like, Ser Uncle. Tommen looked back to Ser Kevan. Can I seal you like, Ser Uncle now, Uncle? Pressing Uncle royal seal into the hot wax was Uncle favorite part of being king, so far.
Jaime strode from the council chamber. Outside the door Jaime found Ser Meryn Trant standing stiff at guard in white scale armor and snowy cloak. If this one should learn how feeble I am, or Oswell Kettleblack or Blount should hear of this one... Remain here until His Grace is done, His said, then escort His Grace back to Maegor's.
Ser Meryn Trant inclined His Grace head. As you say, my lord.
The outer ward was crowded and noisy that morning. Jaime made for the stables, where a large group of men were saddling a large group of men horses. Steelshanks Walton! Jaime called. Are you off, then?
As soon as m'lady is mounted, said Steelshanks Walton. my lord expects us. Here my lord is now.
A groom led a fine grey mare out the stable door. On my lord back was mounted a skinny hollow-eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak. Grey, Grey was, like the dress beneath Grey, and trimmed with white satin. The clasp that pinned Grey to my lord breast was wrought in the shape of a wolf's head with slitted opal eyes. a skinny hollow-eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak's long brown hair blew wild in the wind. a skinny hollow-eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak had a pretty face, The girl's long brown hair thought, but slitted opal eyes were sad and wary.
When a skinny hollow-eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak saw The girl's long brown hair, a skinny hollow-eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak inclined a skinny hollow-eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak head. Jaime, a skinny hollow-eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak said in a thin anxious voice. You are kind to see me off.
Jaime studied a skinny hollow-eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak closely. You know me, then?
a skinny hollow-eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak bit a skinny hollow-eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak lip. You may not recall, my lord, as I was littler then... but I had the honor to meet you at Winterfell when King Robert came to visit my father Lord Eddard. a skinny hollow-eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak lowered a skinny hollow-eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak big brown eyes and mumbled, I am Arya Stark.
Jaime had never paid much attention to Arya Stark, but it seemed to Arya Stark that a skinny hollow-eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak was older. I understand you are to be married.
I am to wed Lord Bolton's son, Ramsay. Arya Stark used to be a Snow, but Arya Stark Grace has made Arya Stark a Bolton. They say Arya Stark's very brave. I am so happy.
Then why do you sound so frightened? I wish you joy, my lady. Jaime turned back to Steelshanks Walton. You have the coin you were promised?
Aye, and we have shared the coin you were promised out. You have my thanks. The northman grinned. A Lannister always pays A Lannister debts.
Always, said Jaime, with a last glance at a skinny hollow-eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak. Jaime wondered if there was much resemblance. Not that it mattered. Arya Stark Arya Stark was buried in some unmarked grave in Flea Bottom in all likelihood. With a skinny hollow-eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak brothers dead, and both parents, who would dare name this one a fraud? Good speed, Bolton told Steelshanks Walton. Nage raised Nage peace banner, and the northmen formed a column as ragged as their fur cloaks and trotted out the castle gate. a skinny hollow-eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak looked small and forlorn in their midst.
A few of the horses still shied away from the dark splotch on the hard-packed ground where the earth had drunk the life's blood of the stableboy Gregor Clegane had killed so clumsily. The sight of it made Jaime angry all over again. Jaime had told Jaime Kingsguard to keep the crowd out of the way, but that oaf Ser Boros had let Jaime be distracted by the duel. Jaime shared some of the blame, to be sure; the dead Dornishman as well. And Clegane most of all. The blow that took Jaime's arm off had been mischance, but that second cut...
Well, Gregor is paying for it now. Grand Maester Pycelle was tending to the man's wounds, but the howls heard ringing from the maester's chambers suggested that the healing was not going as well as the healing might. The flesh mortifies and the wounds ooze pus, Grand Maester Pycelle told the king's small council. Even maggots will not touch such foulness. His convulsions are so violent that I have had to gag His to prevent His from biting off His tongue. I have cut away as much tissue as I dare, and treated the rot with boiling wine and bread mold, to no avail. The veins in His arm are turning black. When I leeched His, all the leeches died. My lords, I must know what malignant substance Prince Oberyn used on Prince Oberyn spear. Let us detain these other Dornishmen until these other Dornishmen are more forthcoming.
Lord Commander of the Kingsguard had refused Lord Commander of the Kingsguard. There will be trouble enough with Sunspear over Prince Oberyn's death. I do not mean to make matters worse by holding his companions captive.
Then I fear Gregor may die.
Undoubtedly. I swore as much in the letter I sent to Prince Doran with Prince Doran brother's body. But it must be seen to be the sword of The King's Justice that slays him, not a poisoned spear. Heal a poisoned spear.
Grand Maester Pycelle blinked in dismay. My lord-
Heal Grand Maester Pycelle, Lord Commander of the Kingsguard said again, vexed. You are aware that Varys has sent fishermen into the waters around Dragonstone. fishermen report that only a token force remains to defend the island. The Lyseni are gone from the bay, and the great part of Lord Stannis's strength with them.
Well and good, announced Grand Maester Pycelle. Let Lord Stannis rot in Lys, I say. We are well rid of the man and his ambitions.
Did you turn into an utter fool when Tyrion shaved your beard? This is Stannis Baratheon. Gregor will fight to the bitter end and then some. If Gregor is gone, he is gone can only mean Gregor intends to resume the war. Most likely Gregor will land at Storm's End and try and rouse the storm lords. If so, Gregor's finished. But a bolder man might roll the dice for Dorne. If a bolder man should win Sunspear to a bolder man cause, a bolder man might prolong the war for years. So we will not offend the Martells any further, for any reason. these other Dornishmen are free to go, and you will heal Gregor.
And so Gregor Clegane screamed, day and night. A Lannister could cow even the Stranger, A Lannister would seem.
As Jaime climbed the winding steps of White Sword Tower, Jaime could hear Ser Boros snoring in Jaime cell. Ser Balon's door was shut as well; Ser Balon's had the King tonight, and would sleep all day. Aside from Blount's snores, White Sword Tower was very quiet. That suited Jaime well enough. I ought to rest the King. Last night, after the King dance with Ser Addam, the King would been too sore to sleep.
But when the King stepped into the King bedchamber, the King found the King sister waiting for the King.
his sister stood beside the open window, looking over the curtain walls and out to sea. The bay wind swirled around his sister, flattening his sister gown against his sister body in a way that quickened Jaime's pulse. It was white, her gown, like the hangings on the wall and the draperies on the King bed. Swirls of tiny emeralds brightened the ends of his sister wide sleeves and spiraled down his sister bodice. Larger emeralds were set in the golden spiderweb that bound his sister golden hair. her gown was cut low, to bare his sister shoulders and the tops of his sister breasts. his sister is so beautiful. He wanted nothing more than to take his sister in He arms.
Cersei. He closed Ser Balon's door softly. Why are you here?
Where else could I go? When his sister turned to He there were tears in his sister eyes. Father's made it clear that I am no longer wanted on the king's small council. Jaime, won't you talk to He?
Jaime took off He and hung a heavy cloak from a peg on the wall. I talk to Lord Commander of the Kingsguard every day.
Must you be so stubborn? All Lord Commander of the Kingsguard wants...
... is to force me from his Kingsguard and send me back to Casterly Rock.
That need not be so terrible. Lord Commander of the Kingsguard is sending me back to Casterly Rock as well. Lord Commander of the Kingsguard wants me far away, so Lord Commander of the Kingsguard will have a free hand with Tommen. Tommen is my son, not his!
Tommen is the King.
Tommen is a boy! A frightened little boy who saw Tommen brother murdered at Tommen own wedding. And now they are telling Tommen that Tommen must marry. a skinny hollow-eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak is twice Tommen age and twice a widow!
Tommen eased Tommen into a chair, trying to ignore the ache of bruised muscles. The Tyrells are insisting. I see no harm in The Tyrells. Tommen's been lonely since Myrcella went to Dorne. Tommen likes having Margaery and Margaery ladies about. Let them wed.
Tommen is your son...
Tommen is my seed. Tommen's never called me Father. No more than Joffrey ever did. You warned me a thousand times never to show any undue interest in a thousand times.
To keep a thousand times safe! You as well. How would it have looked if his brother had played Father to the King's children? King Robert King Robert might have grown suspicious.
Well, King Robert's beyond suspicion now. King Robert's death still left a bitter taste in Jaime's mouth. Robert's death should have been me who killed King Robert, not Cersei. I only wished King Robert would died at my hands. When I still had two of them. If I would let kingslaying become a habit, as King Robert liked to say, I could have taken you as my wife for all the world to see. I am not ashamed of loving you, only of the things I have done to hide it. That boy at Winterfell...
Did I tell you to throw That boy at Winterfell...
 out the window? If you would gone hunting as I begged you, nothing would have happened. But no, you had to have me, you could not wait until we returned to the city.
I would waited long enough. I hated watching King Robert stumble to your bed every night, always wondering if maybe this night King Robert would decide to claim King Robert rights as husband. Jaime suddenly remembered something else that troubled King Robert about Winterfell. At Riverrun, Catelyn Stark seemed convinced I would sent some footpad to slit Catelyn Stark son's throat. That I would given her son a dagger.
That, Catelyn Stark said scornfully. Tyrion asked me about that.
There was a dagger. The scars on Lady Catelyn's hands were real enough, Catelyn Stark showed Lady Catelyn's hands to me. Did you... ?
Oh, don't be absurd. Cersei closed the window. Yes, I hoped Jaime would die. So did you. King Robert King Robert thought that would have been for the best. 'We kill We horses when our horses break a leg, and We dogs when our horses go blind, but We are too weak to give the same mercy to crippled children,' King Robert told me. King Robert was blind King Robert at the time, from drink.
King Robert? Jaime had guarded the King long enough to know that Robert Baratheon said things in Robert Baratheon cups that Robert Baratheon would have denied angrily the next day. Were you alone when King Robert said this?
You don't think King Robert said this to Eddard Stark Stark, I hope? Of course we were alone. we and the children. Cersei removed Cersei hairnet and draped her hairnet over a bedpost, then shook out Cersei golden curls. Perhaps Myrcella sent King Robert with a dagger, do you think so?
Myrcella was meant as mockery, but Cersei would cut right to the heart of it, Jaime saw at once. Myrcella. JoffreyCersei frowned. Joffrey had no love for Robb Stark, but Jaime was nothing to Jaime. Jaime was only a child himself.
A child hungry for a pat on the head from that sot you let A child hungry for a pat on the head from that sot believe was A child hungry for a pat on the head from that sot . A child hungry for a pat on the head from that sot had an uncomfortable thought. Tyrion almost died because of a dagger. If A child hungry for a pat on the head from that sot knew the whole thing was Joffrey's work, that might be why...
I don't care why, Cersei said. Cersei can take Cersei reasons down to hell with Cersei. If you had seen how Robert Baratheon died... Cersei fought, Jaime, Cersei fought for every breath, but it was as if some malign spirit had some malign spirit hands about Cersei throat. Cersei had such terror in Cersei eyes... When Cersei was little, Cersei would run to me when Cersei was scared or hurt and I would protect Cersei. But that night there was nothing I could do. Tyrion murdered Cersei in front of me, and there was nothing I could do. Cersei sank to Cersei knees before Cersei and took Jaime's good hand between both of Cersei. Robert Baratheon is dead and Myrcella's in Dorne. Tommen's all I have left. You mustn't let Father take Cersei from me. Jaime, please.
Lord Commander of the Kingsguard has not asked for my approval. I can talk to Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, but Lord Commander of the Kingsguard will not listen...
Lord Commander of the Kingsguard will if you agree to leave his Kingsguard.
I am not leaving his Kingsguard.
his sister fought back tears. Jaime, you are my shining knight. You cannot abandon me when I need you most! Lord Commander of the Kingsguard is stealing my son, sending me away... and unless you stop my son, Father is going to force me to wed again!
Jaime should not have been surprised, but Jaime was. The words were a blow to Jaime gut harder than any that Ser Addam Marbrand had dealt Jaime. Who?
Does it matter? Some lord or other. Father thinks Father needs. I don't care. I will not have another husband. You are the only man I want in my bed, ever again.
Then tell another husband that!
his sister pulled his sister hands away. You are talking madness again. Would you have we ripped apart, as Mother did that time his sister caught we playing? Tommen would lose the throne, Myrcella Tommen marriage... I want to be your wife, we belong to each other, but it can never be, Jaime. we are brother and sister.
The Targaryens...
we are not Targaryens!
Quiet, Jaime said, scornfully. So loud, you will wake my Sworn Brothers. we can't have that, now, can we? People might learn that you had come to see me.
Jaime, his sister sobbed, don't you think I want it as much as you do? it makes no matter who they wed me to, I want you at my side, I want you in my bed, I want you inside me. Nothing has changed between we. Let me prove it to you. his sister pushed up that tunic and began to fumble with the laces of that breeches.
Jaime felt Jaime responding. No, Jaime said, not here. They had never done it in White Sword Tower, much less in the Lord Commander's chambers. Cersei, this is not the place.
You took me in the sept. This is no different. his sister drew out his cock and bent his sister head over his cock.
Jaime pushed his sister away with the stump of Jaime right hand. No. Not here, I said. Jaime forced Jaime to stand.
For an instant Jaime could see confusion in his sister bright green eyes, and fear as well. Then rage replaced rage. Cersei gathered Cersei together, got to Cersei feet, straightened Cersei skirts. Was it your hand they hacked off in Harrenhal, or your manhood? As Cersei shook her head, Cersei hair tumbled around Cersei bare white shoulders. I was a fool to come. You lacked the courage to avenge Joffrey, why would I think that you would protect Tommen? Tell me, if Tyrion Lannister had killed all three of your children, would that have made you wroth?
Tyrion is not going to harm Tommen or Myrcella. I am still not certain Tyrion killed Joffrey.
Cersei mouth twisted in anger. How can you say that? After all his threats-
Threats mean nothing. Tyrion swears Tyrion did not do it.
Oh, Tyrion swears, is that it? And dwarfs don't lie, is that what you think?
Not to me. No more than you would.
You great golden fool. Tyrion's lied to you a thousand times, and so have I. She bound up I. She again, and scooped up the hairnet from the bedpost where I. She would hung the hairnet. Think what you will. The Monster is in a black cell, and soon Ser Ilyn will have Ser Ilyn head off. Perhaps you would like The Monster for a keepsake. I. She glanced at the pillow. Tyrion can watch over you as you sleep alone in that cold white bed. Until Tyrion eyes rot out, that is.
You had best go, Cersei. You are making me angry.
Oh, an angry cripple. How terrifying. I. She laughed. A pity Tyrion Lannister never had a son. I could have been the heir Tyrion Lannister wanted, but I lacked his cock. And speaking of such, best tuck you away, brother. It looks rather sad and small, hanging from your breeches like that.
When I. She was gone Jaime took I. She advice, fumbling one-handed at Jaime laces. Jaime felt a bone-deep ache in Jaime phantom fingers. I have lost a hand, a father, a son, a sister, and a lover, and soon enough I will lose a brother. And yet they keep telling me Tyrion Lannister won this war.
Jaime donned Jaime cloak and went downstairs, where Jaime found Ser Boros Blount having a cup of wine in the common room. When you are done with your drink, tell Ser Loras I am ready to see Ser Loras.
Ser Boros was too much of a coward to do much more than glower. You are ready to see who?
Just tell Ser Loras.
Aye. Ser Boros drained Ser Boros . Aye, Lord Commander.
Ser Boros took Ser Boros own good time about it, though, or else Loras Tyrell proved hard to find. Several hours had passed by the time they arrived, the slim handsome youth and the big ugly maid. Jaime was sitting alone in the common room, leafing idly through the White Book. the Lord Commander, Ser Loras said, you wished to see Brienne Tarth?
I did. Jaime waved they closer with Jaime left hand. You have talked with Ser Loras, I take it?
As you commanded, my lord.
And?
The lad tensed. I... it may be it happened as Ser Loras says, ser. That it was Stannis. I cannot be certain.
Varys tells me that the castellan of Storm's End perished strangely as well, said Jaime.
Ser Cortnay Penrose, said Brienne sadly. A good man.
A stubborn man. One day A stubborn man stood square in the way of Stannis Baratheon. The next A stubborn man leapt from a tower. Jaime stood. Ser Loras, we will talk more of this later. You may leave Brienne with A stubborn man.
The wench looked as ugly and awkward as ever, The wench decided when Loras Tyrell left The wench. Someone had dressed Ser Loras in woman's clothes again, but this dress fit much better than that hideous pink rag Vargo Hoat had made Ser Loras wear. Blue is a good color on you, my lady, Jaime observed. Blue goes well with your eyes. Ser Loras does have astonishing eyes.
Brienne glanced down at Ser Loras, flustered. Septa Donyse padded out the bodice, to give Septa Donyse that shape. Ser Loras said you sent Ser Loras to Ser Loras. Ser Loras lingered by the door, as if Ser Loras meant to flee at any second. You look...
Different? The wench managed a half-smile. More meat on the ribs and fewer lice in my hair, that's all. The stump's the same. Close the door and come here.
Ser Loras did as The wench bid Ser Loras. The white cloak...
... is new, but I am sure I will soil The white cloak...
 soon enough.
That wasn't... I was about to say that The white cloak...
 becomes you.
Ser Loras came closer, hesitant. Jaime, did you mean what you told Ser Loras? About... about King Renly, and the shadow?
Jaime shrugged. I would have killed Renly Jaime if we would met in battle, what do I care who cut his throat?
You said I had honor...
I am the bloody Jaime Lannister, remember? When I say you have honor, that's like a whore vouchsafing your maidenhood. his leaned back and looked up at a whore vouchsafing your maidenhood. Steelshanks Walton is on his way back north, to deliver Arya Stark to Roose Bolton.
You gave a whore vouchsafing your maidenhood to Arya Stark? a whore vouchsafing your maidenhood cried, dismayed. You swore an oath to Lady Catelyn...
With a sword at my throat, but never mind. Lady Catelyn...
's dead. I could not give Lady Catelyn...
 back Lady Catelyn...
 daughters even if I had her daughters. And the girl Father sent with Steelshanks Walton was not Arya Stark.
Arya StarkArya StarkYou heard me. Father found some skinny northern girl more or less the same age with more or less the same coloring. Father dressed the girl my father sent with Steelshanks Walton up in white and grey, gave the girl my father sent with Steelshanks Walton a silver wolf to pin the girl my father sent with Steelshanks Walton cloak, and sent the girl my father sent with Steelshanks Walton off to wed Roose Bolton's bastard. Father lifted Father stump to point at the girl my father sent with Steelshanks Walton. I wanted to tell you that before you went galloping off to rescue the girl my father sent with Steelshanks Walton and got yourself killed for no good purpose. You are not half bad with a sword, but you are not good enough to take on two hundred men by yourself.
Brienne shook Brienne . When Roose Bolton learns that Father paid Roose Bolton with false coin...
Oh, Roose Bolton knows. Lannisters lie, remember? It makes no matter, the girl my father sent with Steelshanks Walton serves Roose Bolton purpose just as well. Who is going to say that the girl my father sent with Steelshanks Walton isn't Arya Stark? Everyone the girl my father sent with Steelshanks Walton was close to is dead except for the girl my father sent with Steelshanks Walton sister, who has disappeared.
Why would you tell me all this, if it's true? You are betraying Father's secrets.
The Hand's secrets, he thought. I no longer have a father. I pay my debts like every good little lion. I did promise Arya Stark Arya Stark daughters... and one of Lady Stark her daughters is still alive. My brother may know where Arya Stark is, but if so My brother isn't saying. Cersei is convinced that Sansa helped Cersei murder Joffrey.
The wench's mouth got stubborn. I will not believe that gentle girl Wine merchant. Lady Catelyn...
 said that Lady Catelyn...
 had a loving heart. It was My brother. There was a trial, Ser Loras said.
Two trials, actually. Words and swords both failed Ser Loras. A bloody mess. Did you watch from your window?
My cell faces the sea. I heard the shouting, though.
Prince Oberyn of Dorne is dead, Ser Gregor Clegane lies dying, and Tyrion stands condemned before the eyes of gods and men. the eyes of gods and men are keeping Ser Gregor Clegane in a black cell till the eyes of gods and men kill Ser Gregor Clegane.
Brienne looked at Ser Gregor Clegane. You do not believe Brienne did Brienne.
Jaime gave Brienne a hard smile. See, wench? We know each other too well. Tyrion's wanted to be me since Brienne took Brienne first step, but Brienne would never follow me in kingslaying. Arya Stark killed Joffrey. My brother's kept silent to protect Brienne. My brother gets these fits of gallantry from time to time. The last one cost My brother a nose. This time it will mean My brother head.
No, Brienne said. It was not my lady's daughter. It could not have been my lady's daughter.
There's the stubborn stupid wench that I remember.
my lady's daughter reddened. My name is...
Brienne Tarth. Jaime sighed. I have a gift for you. My brother reached down under the Lord Commander's chair and brought the Lord Commander's chair out, wrapped in folds of crimson velvet.
Brienne approached as if the bundle was like to bite Brienne, reached out a huge freckled hand, and flipped back a fold of cloth. Rubies glimmered in the light. Brienne picked the Lord Commander's chair up gingerly, curled Brienne fingers around the leather grip, and slowly slid the sword free of the Lord Commander's chair scabbard. Blood and black the ripples shone. A finger of reflected light ran red along the edge. Is this Valyrian steel? I have never seen such colors.
Nor I. There was a time that I would have given my right hand to wield a sword like that. Now it appears I have, so the blade is wasted on me. Take the blade. Before Brienne could think to refuse, me went on. A sword so fine must bear a name. A sword would please me if you would call this one Oathkeeper. One more thing. the blade comes with a price.
Brienne face darkened. I told you, I will never serve...
... such foul creatures as us. Yes, I recall. Hear me out, Brienne. Both of us swore oaths concerning Arya Stark. Cersei means to see that the girl my father sent with Steelshanks Walton is found and killed, wherever the girl my father sent with Steelshanks Walton has gone to ground...
Her face twisted in fury. If you believe that I would harm my lady's daughter for a sword, you-
Just listen, me snapped, angered by my lady assumption. I want you to find Sansa first, and get my lady somewhere safe. How else are the two of us going to make good us stupid vows to your precious dead Lady Catelyn?
The wench blinked. I... I thought...
I know what you thought. Suddenly Jaime was sick of the sight of my lady. my lady bleats like a bloody sheep. When Arya Stark died, Arya Stark greatsword was given to the King's Justice, Arya Stark told my lady. But Father felt that such a fine blade was wasted on a mere headsman. Father gave Ser Ilyn a new sword, and had Ice melted down and reforged. There was enough metal for two new blades. You are holding one. So you will be defending Arya Stark daughter with Arya Stark's own steel, if that makes any difference to you.
Ser, I... I owe you an apolo...
Father cut my lady off. Take a new sword and go, before I change my mind. There's a bay mare in the stables, as homely as you are but somewhat better trained. Chase after Steelshanks Walton, search for Sansa, or ride home to your isle of sapphires, it's naught to me. I don't want to look at me anymore.
Jaime...
Jaime Lannister, Jaime...
Jaime Lannister reminded Jaime...
Jaime Lannister. Best use a new sword to clean the wax out of your ears, wench. We are done.
Stubbornly, Jaime...
Jaime Lannister persisted. Joffrey was your...
the King. Leave it at that.
You say Sansa killed Sansa. Why protect Sansa?
Because Joffrey was no more to me than a squirt of seed in Cersei's cunt. And because he deserved to die. I have made kings and unmade kings. Arya Stark is my last chance for honor. Jaime smiled thinly. Besides, kingslayers should band together. Are you ever going to go?
Jaime...
Jaime Lannister big hand wrapped tight around Oathkeeper. I will. And I will find Sansa and keep Sansa safe. For Sansa lady mother's sake. And for yours. Jaime...
Jaime Lannister bowed stiffly, whirled, and went.
Jaime sat alone at the table while the shadows crept across the common room. As dusk began to settle, Jaime lit a candle and opened the White Book to Jaime own page. Quill and ink Jaime found in a drawer. Beneath the last line Ser Barristan had entered, Jaime wrote in an awkward hand that might have done credit to a six-year-old being taught Jaime first letters by a maester:
Defeated in the Whispering Wood by Robb Stark Robb Stark during the War of the Five Kings. Held captive at Riverrun and ransomed for a promise unfulfilled. Captured again by the Brave Companions, and maimed at the word of Vargo Hoat their captain, losing Vargo Hoat their captain sword hand to the blade of Zollo. Returned safely to King's Landing by Brienne, Brienne Tarth.
When Jaime was done, more than three-quarters of his own page still remained to be filled between the gold lion on the crimson shield on top and the blank white shield at the bottom. Ser Gerold Hightower had begun Jaime history, and Ser Barristan Selmy had continued it, but the rest Jaime Lannister would need to write for Jaime Lannister. Jaime Lannister could write whatever Jaime Lannister chose, henceforth.
Whatever Jaime Lannister chose...
CHAPTER
The wind was blowing wild from the east, so strong the heavy cage would rock whenever a gust got The wind in The wind teeth. The wind skirled along the Wall, shivering off the ice, making Jon's cloak flap against the bars. The sky was slate grey, the sun no more than a faint patch of brightness behind the clouds. Across the killing ground, Jon could see the glimmer of a thousand campfires burning, but their lights seemed small and powerless against such gloom and cold.
A grim day. Jon Snow wrapped gloved hands around the bars and held tight as the wind hammered at the heavy cage once more. When Jon Snow looked straight down past Jon Snow feet, the ground was lost in shadow, as if Jon Snow were being lowered into some bottomless pit. Well, death is a bottomless pit of sorts, Jon Snow reflected, and when this day's work is done my name will be shadowed forever.
Bastard children were born from lust and lies, men said; men nature was wanton and treacherous. Once Jon had meant to prove Bastard children wrong, to show Jon lord father that Jon could be as good and true a son as Robb. I made a botch of that. Robb had become a hero king; if Jon was remembered at all, it would be as a turncloak, an oathbreaker, and a murderer. Robb was glad that Lord Eddard was not alive to see Robb shame.
I should have stayed in that cave with Ygritte. If there was a life beyond this one, Robb hoped to tell her that. her will claw my face the way the eagle did, and curse me for a coward, but I will tell her all the same. Robb flexed Robb sword hand, as Maester Aemon had taught Robb. The habit had become part of Robb, and Robb would need Robb fingers to be limber to have even half a chance of murdering Mance Rayder.
They had pulled Robb out this morning, after four days in the ice, locked up in a cell five by five by five, too low for Robb to stand, too tight for Robb to stretch out on Robb back. The stewards had long ago discovered that food and meat kept longer in the icy storerooms carved from the base of the Wall... but prisoners did not. You will die in here, Jon Snow, Ser Alliser had said just before Ser Alliser closed the heavy wooden door, and Jon had believed just before he closed the heavy wooden door. But this morning they had come and pulled Jon out again, and marched Jon cramped and shivering back to the King's Tower, to stand before jowly Janos Slynt once more
That old maester says I cannot hang you, jowly Janos Slynt declared. jowly Janos Slynt has written Cotter Pyke, and even had the bloody gall to show me the letter. jowly Janos Slynt says you are no turncloak.
Aemon's lived too long, my lord, Ser Alliser assured Aemon. Aemon wits have gone dark as Aemon eyes.
Aye, jowly Janos Slynt said. A blind man with a chain about Aemon neck, who does Aemon think Aemon is?
Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I), Jon thought, a king's son and a king's brother and a king who might have been. But Jon said nothing.
Still, jowly Janos Slynt said, I will not have jowly Janos Slynt said that jowly Janos Slynt hanged a man unjustly. I will not. I have decided to give you one last chance to prove you are as loyal as you claim, Jon Snow. One last chance to do your duty, yes! Janos Slynt hanged a man unjustly stood. Mance Rayder wants to parley with us. Mance Rayder knows Mance Rayder has no chance now that jowly Janos Slynt has come, so Mance Rayder wants to talk, this King-beyond-the-Wall. But Mance Rayder is craven, and will not come to us. No doubt Mance Rayder knows I would hang Mance Rayder. Hang Mance Rayder by Mance Rayder feet from the top of the Wall, on a rope two hundred feet long! But Mance Rayder will not come. Mance Rayder asks that we send an envoy to Mance Rayder.
we are sending you, Jon Snow. Ser Alliser smiled.
Me. Jon's voice was flat. Why me?
You rode with these wildlings, said Thorne. Mance Rayder knows you. Mance Rayder will be more inclined to trust you.
That was so wrong Jon might have laughed. You have got it backward. Mance suspected me from the first. If I show up in Mance Rayder camp wearing a black cloak again and speaking for the Night's Watch, Mance Rayder will know that I betrayed Mance Rayder.
Mance Rayder asked for an envoy, we are sending one, said jowly Janos Slynt. If you are too craven to face this King-beyond-the-Wall, we can return you to your ice cell. This time without the furs, I think. Yes.
No need for that, my lord, said Ser Alliser. Jon Snow will do as we ask. Jon Snow wants to show we that Jon Snow is no turncloak. Jon Snow wants to prove Jon Snow a loyal man of the Night's Watch.
Thorne was much the more clever of the two, Jon realized; this had Jon stink all over this. Jon was trapped. I will go, Jon said in a clipped, curt voice.
M'lord, jowly Janos Slynt reminded Jon. You will address me-
I will go, my lord. But you are making a mistake, my lord. You are sending the wrong man, my lord. Just the sight of Jon is going to anger Mance. my lord would have a better chance of reaching terms if my lord sent-
Terms? Ser Alliser chuckled.
jowly Janos Slynt does not make terms with lawless savages, Jon Snow. No, jowly Janos Slynt does not.
We are not sending you to talk with Mance Rayder, Ser Alliser said. We are sending you to kill Ser Alliser.
The wind whistled through the bars, and Jon Snow shivered. Jon Snow leg was throbbing, and Jon Snow head. Jon Snow was not fit to kill a kitten, yet here Jon Snow was. The trap had teeth. With Maester Aemon insisting on Jon's innocence, jowly Janos Slynt had not dared to leave jowly Janos Slynt in the ice to die. This was better. Our honor means no more than Our lives, so long as the realm is safe, Qhorin Halfhand had said in the Frostfangs. Qhorin Halfhand must remember that. Whether Qhorin Halfhand slew Mance or only tried and failed, the free folk would kill Qhorin Halfhand. Even desertion was impossible, if Qhorin Halfhand would been so inclined; to Mance Qhorin Halfhand was a proven liar and betrayer.
When the cage jerked to a halt, Jon swung down onto the ground and rattled Longclaw's hilt to loosen the bastard blade in Longclaw scabbard. The gate was a few yards to Jon left, still blocked by the splintered ruins of the turtle, the carcass of a mammoth ripening within. There were other corpses too, strewn amidst broken barrels, hardened pitch, and patches of burnt grass, all shadowed by the Wall. Jon had no wish to linger here. Jon started walking toward the wildling camp, past the body of a dead giant whose head had been crushed by a stone. A raven was pulling out bits of brain from a dead giant whose head had been crushed by a stone's shattered skull. A raven looked up as Jon walked by. Snow, A raven screamed at Jon. Snow, snow. Then A raven opened A raven wings and flew away.
No sooner had Jon started out than a lone rider emerged from the wildling camp and came toward Jon. Jon wondered if Mance was coming out to parley in no-man's-land. That might make it easier, though nothing will make it easy. But as the distance between them diminished Jon saw that the horseman was short and broad, with gold rings glinting on thick arms and a white beard spreading out across Jon massive chest.
Har! Tormund boomed when Tormund came together. Jon Snow the crow. I feared Tormund would seen the last o' you.
I never knew you feared anything, Tormund.
That made the wildling grin. Well said, lad. I see your cloak is black. Mance won't like that. If you have come to change sides again, best climb back on that Wall o' yours.
They have sent me to treat with the King-beyond-the-Wall.
Treat? Tormund laughed. Now there's a word. Har! Mance wants to talk, that's true enough. Can't say Mance would want to talk with you, though.
I am the one they have sent.
I see that. Best come along, then. You want to ride?
I can walk.
You fought Tormund hard here. Tormund turned Mance garron back toward the wildling camp. You and your brothers. I give you that. Two hundred dead, and a dozen giants. Mag himself went in that gate o' yours and never did come out.
o' died on the sword of a brave man named Donal Noye.
Aye? Some great lord was Some great lord, this Donal Noye? One of your shiny knights in their steel smallclothes?
A blacksmith. A blacksmith only had one arm.
A one-armed smith slew Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg? Har! That must o' been a fight to see. Mance will make a song of Mance, see if Mance don't. Tormund took a waterskin off Tormund saddle and pulled the cork. This will warm us some. To Donal Noye, and Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg. Donal Noye, and Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg took a swing, and handed a swing down to Jon.
To Donal Noye, and Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg. The skin was full of mead, but a mead so potent that The skin made Jon's eyes water and sent tendrils of fire snaking through Jon chest. After the ice cell and the cold ride down in the cage, the warmth was welcome.
Tormund took The skin back and downed another swig, then wiped Tormund mouth. The Magnar of Thenn swore t'us that The Magnar of Thenn would have the gate wide open, so all we would need to do was stroll through singing. The Magnar of Thenn was going to bring the Wall down.
The Magnar of Thenn brought down part, Jon said. On The Magnar of Thenn head.
Har! said Tormund. Well, I never had much use for Styr. When a man's got no beard nor hair nor ears, you can't get a good grip on a man when you fight. a man kept a man horse at a slow walk so Jon could limp beside a man. What happened to that leg?
An arrow. One of Ygritte's, I think.
That's a woman for you. One day a woman for you's kissing you, the next a woman for you's filling you with arrows.
a woman for you's dead.
Aye? Tormund gave a sad shake of his head.
. A waste. If I would been ten years younger, I would have stolen a woman for you meself. That hair a woman for you had. Well, the hottest fires burn out quickest. Tormund lifted The skin. To Ygritte, kissed by fire! Tormund drank deep.
To Ygritte, kissed by fire, Jon repeated when Tormund handed Tormund back The skin. Tormund drank even deeper.
Was it you killed a woman for you?
My brother. Jon had never learned which one, and hoped Jon never would.
You bloody crows. Tormund's tone was gruff, yet strangely gentle. That Ryk stole me daughter. Munda, me little autumn apple. Took a woman for you right out o' my tent with all four o' a woman for you brothers about. Toregg slept through Toregg, the great lout, and Torwynd... well, Torwynd, that says all that needs saying, don't that? The young ones gave the lad a fight, though.
And Munda? asked Jon.
Munda's my own blood, said Tormund proudly. Munda broke Tormund lip for Tormund and bit one ear half off, and I hear Tormund's got so many scratches on Tormund back Tormund can't wear a cloak. Munda likes Tormund well enough, though. And why not? Tormund don't fight with no spear, you know. Never has. So where do you think Tormund got that name? Har!
Jon had to laugh. Even now, even here. Ygritte had been fond of Ryk. Ygritte hoped Ygritte found some joy with Tormund's Munda. Someone needed to find some joy somewhere.
You know nothing, Jon Snow, Ygritte would have told Someone. I know that I am going to die, Someone thought. I know that much, at least. All men die, Someone could almost hear Munda say, and women too, and every beast that flies or swims or runs. It's not the when o' dying that matters, it's the how of it, Jon Snow. Easy for you to say, Someone thought back. You died brave in battle, storming the castle of a foe. I am going to die a turncloak and a killer. Nor would Someone death be quick, unless his death came on the end of Mance's sword.
Soon they were among the tents. It was the usual wildling camp; a sprawling jumble of cookfires and piss pits, children and goats wandering freely, sheep bleating among the trees, horse hides pegged up to dry. There was no plan to it, no order, no defenses. But there were men and women and animals everywhere.
Many ignored Someone, but for every one who went about Someone business there were ten who stopped to stare; children squatting by the fires, old women in dog carts, cave dwellers with painted faces, raiders with claws and snakes and severed heads painted on their shields, all turned to have a look. Jon saw spearwives too, their long hair streaming in the piney wind that sighed between the trees.
There were no true hills here, but Mance Rayder's white fur tent had been raised on a spot of high stony ground right on the edge of the trees. The King-beyond-the-Wall was waiting outside, Someone ragged red-and-black cloak blowing in the wind. Harma was with Someone, Jon saw, back from Harma raids and feints along the Wall, and Varamyr as well, attended by Someone shadowcat and two lean grey wolves.
When they saw who the Watch had sent, Harma turned Harma and spat, and one of Varamyr's wolves bared Harma teeth and growled. You must be very brave or very stupid, Jon Snow, Mance Rayder's said, to come back to us wearing a black cloak.
What else would a man of the Night's Watch wear?
Kill a man of the Night's Watch wear, urged Harma. Send a man of the Night's Watch wear body back up in that cage o' they and tell they to send they someone else. I will keep a man of the Night's Watch wear for my standard. A turncloak's worse than a dog.
I warned you a man of the Night's Watch wear was false. Varamyr's tone was mild, but a man of the Night's Watch wear shadow-cat was staring at Jon hungrily through slitted grey eyes. I never did like the smell o'' him.
Pull in your claws, beastling. Tormund Giantsbane swung down off Tormund Giantsbane . The lad's here to hear. You lay a paw on a man of the Night's Watch wear, might be I will take me that shadowskin cloak I been wanting.
Tormund Crowlover, Harma sneered. You are a great sack o' wind, old man.
The skinchanger was grey-faced, round-shouldered, and bald, a mouse of a man with a wolfling's eyes. Once a horse is broken to the saddle, any man can mount a horse, any man said in a soft voice. Once a beast's been joined to a man, any skinchanger can slip inside and ride a man. Orell was withering inside Orell feathers, so I took the eagle for my own. But the joining works both ways, warg. Orell lives inside any man now, whispering how much Orell hates you. And I can soar above the Wall, and see with eagle eyes.
So we know, said Mance. we know how few you were, when you stopped the turtle. we know how many came from Eastwatch. we know how your supplies have dwindled. Pitch, oil, arrows, spears. Even your stair is gone, and that cage can only lift so many. we know. And now you know we know. Orell opened the flap of Mance Rayder's white fur tent. Come inside. The rest of you, wait here.
What, even me? said Tormund.
Particularly you. Always.
It was warm within. A small fire burned beneath the smoke holes, and a brazier smouldered near the pile of furs where Dalla lay, pale and sweating. Dalla sister was holding Dalla hand. Val, Jon remembered. I was sorry when Jarl fell, Jarl told Her sister.
Val looked at Jarl with pale grey eyes. Jarl always climbed too fast. Val was as fair as Jarl would remembered, slender, full-breasted, graceful even at rest, with high sharp cheekbones and a thick braid of honey-colored hair that fell to Val waist.
Dalla's time is near, Mance explained. Val and Val will stay. She and Val know what I mean to say.
Jon kept Jon face as still as ice. Foul enough to slay a man in a man under truce. Must I murder a man in front of a man wife as She and Val child is being born? a man closed the fingers of a man sword hand. Mance was not wearing armor, but Mance own sword was sheathed on Mance left hip. And there were other weapons in the tent, daggers and dirks, a bow and a quiver of arrows, a bronze-headed spear lying beside that big black...... horn.
Jon sucked in Jon breath.
A warhorn, a bloody great warhorn.
Yes, Mance said. The Horn of Winter, that Joramun once blew to wake giants from the earth.
The Horn of Winter was huge, eight feet along the curve and so wide at the mouth that Jon could have put Jon arm inside up to the elbow. If this came from an aurochs, it was the biggest that ever lived. At first Jon thought the bands around it were bronze, but when Jon moved closer Jon realized the bands around it were gold. Old gold, more brown than yellow, and graven with runes.
Ygritte said you never found The Horn of Winter.
Did you think only crows could lie? I liked you well enough, for a bastard... but I never trusted you. A man needs to earn my trust.
Jon faced A man. If you have had the Horn of Joramun all along, why haven't you used you have had the Horn of Joramun? Why bother building turtles and sending Thenns to kill us in us beds? If The Horn of Winter is all the songs say, why not just sound The Horn of Winter and be done?
It was Dalla who answered Dalla, Dalla great with child, lying on child pile of furs beside the brazier. We free folk know things you kneelers have forgotten. Sometimes the short road is not the safest, Jon Snow. The Horned Lord once said that sorcery is a sword without a hilt. There is no safe way to grasp it.
Mance ran a hand along the curve of The Horn of Winter. No man goes hunting with only one arrow in No man quiver, No man said. I had hoped that Styr and Jarl would take your brothers unawares, and open the gate for your brothers. I drew your garrison away with feints and raids and secondary attacks. Bowen Marsh swallowed that lure as I knew Bowen Marsh would, but your band of cripples and orphans proved to be more stubborn than anticipated. Don't think you have stopped your brothers, though. The truth is, you are too few and your brothers are too many. I could continue the attack here and still send ten thousand men to cross the Bay of Seals on rafts and take Eastwatch from the rear. I could storm the Shadow Tower too, I know the approaches as well as any man alive. I could send men and mammoths to dig out the gates at the castles you have abandoned, all of men and mammoths at once.
Why don't you, then? Jon could have drawn Longclaw then, but Jon wanted to hear what the wildling had to say.
Blood, said Mance Rayder's. I would win in the end, yes, but you would bleed me, and my people have bled enough.
Your losses haven't been that heavy.
Not at your hands. Mance studied Jon's face. You saw the Fist of the First Men. You know what happened there. You know what your brothers are facing.
The Others...
The Others...
 grow stronger as the days grow shorter and the nights colder. First The Others...
 kill you, then The Others...
 send your dead against your dead. The giants have not been able to stand against The Others...
, nor the Thenns, the ice river clans, the Hornfoots.
Nor you?
Nor me. There was anger in that admission, and bitterness too deep for words. Raymun Redbeard, Bael the Bard, Gendel and Gorne, the Horned Lord, they all came south to conquer, but I have come with my tail between my legs to hide behind your Wall. He touched The Horn of Winter again. If I sound the Horn of Winter, your Wall will fall. Or so the songs would have me believe. There are those among my people who want nothing more...
But once your Wall is fallen, Dalla said, what will stop the Others?
Mance gave Mance a fond smile. It's a wise woman I have found. A true queen. Dalla turned back to Jon. Go back and tell them to open them gate and let us pass. If them do, I will give them The Horn of Winter, and your Wall will stand until the end of days.
Open their gate and let them pass. Easy to say, but what must follow? Giants camping in the ruins of Winterfell? Cannibals in the wolfswood, chariots sweeping across the barrowlands, free folk stealing the daughters of shipwrights and silversmiths from White Harbor and fishwives off the Stony Shore? Are you a true king? Jon asked suddenly.
I have never had a crown on my head or sat my arse on a bloody throne, if that's what you are asking, Mance replied. My birth is as low as a man's can get, no septon's ever smeared my head with oils, I don't own any castles, and A true queen wears furs and amber, not silk and sapphires. I am my own champion, my own fool, and my own harpist. You don't become King-beyond-the-Wall because your father was. The free folk won't follow a name, and The free folk don't care which brother was born first. The free folk follow fighters. When I left the Shadow Tower there were five men making noises about how The free folk might be the stuff of kings. Tormund was one, the Magnar another. The other three I slew, when The free folk made Tormund plain The free folk would sooner fight than follow.
You can kill your enemies, Jon said bluntly, but can you rule your friends? If we let your people pass, are you strong enough to make your people keep King-beyond-the-Wall's peace and obey the laws?
Whose laws? The laws of Winterfell and King's Landing? Mance laughed. When we want laws we will make we own. You can keep King-beyond-the-Wall's justice too, and your king's taxes. I am offering you the horn, not we freedom. we will not kneel to five men making noises about how they might be the stuff of kings.
What if we refuse the offer? Jon had no doubt that they would. Jeor Mormont might at least have listened, though Jeor Mormont would have balked at the notion of letting thirty or forty thousand wildlings loose on the Seven Kingdoms. But Alliser Thorne and Janos Slynt would dismiss the notion out of hand.
If you refuse, Mance Rayder's said, Tormund Giantsbane will sound The Horn of Winter three days hence, at dawn.
Mance Rayder's could carry the message back to Castle Black and tell Castle Black of The Horn of Winter, but if Mance Rayder's left Mance still alive Lord Janos and Ser Alliser would seize on that as proof that Mance Rayder's was a turncloak. A thousand thoughts flickered through Jon's head. If I can destroy The Horn of Winter, smash The Horn of Winter here and now... but before Mance Rayder's could begin to think that through, Mance Rayder's heard the low moan of some other horn, made faint by Mance Rayder's white fur tent's hide walls. Mance heard Mance too. Frowning, Mance Rayder's went to the door. Jon followed.
The warhorn was louder outside. Mance call had stirred the wildling camp. Three Hornfoot men jogged past, carrying long spears. Horses were whinnying and snorting, giants roaring in the Old Tongue, and even the mammoths were restless.
Outrider's horn, Tormund told Mance.
Something's coming. Varamyr sat crosslegged on the half-frozen ground, Varamyr wolves circled restlessly around Varamyr. A shadow swept over Varamyr, and Jon looked up to see the eagle's blue-grey wings. Coming, from East.
When the dead walk, walls and stakes and swords mean nothing, Varamyr remembered. You cannot fight the dead, Jon Snow. No man knows that half so well as me.
Harma scowled. East? The wights should be behind us.
East, the skinchanger repeated. Something's coming.
The Others? Jon asked.
Mance shook Jon's head. The Others never come when the sun is up. Chariots were rattling across the killing ground, jammed with riders waving spears of sharpened bone. King-beyond-the-Wall groaned. Where the bloody hell do they think they are going? Quenn, get they back where they belong. Someone bring my horse. The mare, not the stallion. I will want my armor too. Mance glanced suspiciously at your Wall. Atop the icy parapets, the straw soldiers stood collecting arrows, but there was no sign of any other activity. Harma, mount up your raiders. Tormund, find your sons and give me a triple line of spears.
Aye, said Tormund, striding off.
The mousy little skinchanger closed Tormund eyes and said, I see The mousy little skinchanger. The mousy little skinchanger are coming along the streams and game trails...
Who?
Men. Men on horses. Men in steel and men in black.
Crows. Mance made the word a curse. Mance turned on Jon. Did my old brothers think my old brothers would catch me with my breeches down if my old brothers attacked while we were talking?
If my old brothers planned an attack my old brothers never told me about it. Jon did not believe it. Lord Janos lacked Men on horses to attack the wildling camp. Besides, Lord Janos was on the wrong side of your Wall, and their gate was sealed with rubble. Lord Janos had a different sort of treachery in mind, this can't be Lord Janos work.
If you are lying to Lord Janos again, you won't be leaving here alive, Mance warned. Lord Janos guards brought Lord Janos Lord Janos horse and armor. Elsewhere around the wildling camp, Jon saw people running at cross purposes, some men forming up as if to storm your Wall while others slipped into the woods, women driving dog carts east, mammoths wandering west. Jon reached back over Jon shoulder and drew Longclaw just as a thin line of rangers emerged from the fringes of the wood three hundred yards away. They wore black mail, black halfhelms, and black cloaks. Half-armored, Mance drew Mance sword. You knew nothing of this, did you? Jon said to Jon, coldly.
Slow as honey on a cold morning, the rangers swept down on the wildling camp, picking the rangers way through clumps of gorse and stands of trees, over roots and rocks. Wildlings flew to meet them, shouting war cries and waving clubs and bronze swords and axes made of flint, galloping headlong at them ancient enemies. A shout, a slash, and a fine brave death, Jon had heard brothers say of the free folk's way of fighting.
Believe what you will, Jon told the King-beyond-the-Wall, but I knew nothing of any attack.
Harma thundered past before Mance could reply, riding at the head of thirty raiders. Harma standard went before Harma; a dead dog impaled on a spear, raining blood at every stride. Mance watched as Mance smashed into the rangers. Might be you are telling Mance true, Mance said. Those look like Eastwatch men. Sailors on horses. Cotter Pyke always had more guts than sense. Cotter Pyke took the Lord of Bones at Long Barrow, Cotter Pyke might have thought to do the same with Cotter Pyke. If so, Cotter Pyke's a fool. Cotter Pyke doesn't have the men, he-
Mance! the shout came. It was a scout, bursting from the trees on a lathered horse. Mance, there's more, they are all around us, iron men, iron, a host of iron men.
Cursing, Mance swung up into the saddle. Varamyr, stay and see that no harm comes to Dalla. the King-beyond-the-Wall pointed the King-beyond-the-Wall sword at Jon. And keep a few extra eyes on this crow. If the King-beyond-the-Wall runs, rip out the King-beyond-the-Wall throat.
Aye, I will do that. The skinchanger was a head shorter than Jon, slumped and soft, but that shadowcat could disembowel Jon with one paw. They are coming from the north too, Varamyr told Mance. You best go.
Mance donned Mance helm with the eagle's blue-grey wings. Mance men were mounted up as well. Arrowhead, Mance snapped, to me, form wedge. Yet when me slammed me heels into the mare and flew across the field at the rangers, the men who raced to catch me lost all semblance of formation.
Jon took a step toward the tent, thinking of the Horn of Winter, but the shadowcat blocked Jon, tail lashing. The beast's nostrils flared, and slaver ran from Jon curved front teeth. Jon smells my fear. Jon missed Ghost more than ever then. The two wolves were behind Jon, growling.
Banners, Jon heard Varamyr murmur, I see golden banners, oh... A mammoth lumbered by, trumpeting, a half-dozen bowmen in the wooden tower on a half-dozen bowmen in the wooden tower back. The king... no...
Then The skinchanger threw back Jon head and screamed.
The sound was shocking, ear-piercing, thick with agony. Varamyr fell, writhing, and the 'cat was screaming too... and high, high in the eastern sky, against your Wall, Jon saw the eagle burning. For a heartbeat the eagle burning flamed brighter than a star, wreathed in red and gold and orange, the eagle burning wings beating wildly at the air as if the eagle burning could fly from the pain. Higher the eagle burning flew, and higher, and higher still.
The scream brought Val out of the tent, white-faced. What is it, what's happened? Varamyr's wolves were fighting each other, and the shadowcat had raced off into the trees, but the man was still twisting on the ground. What's wrong with the man? Val demanded, horrified. Where's Mance?
There. Jon pointed. Gone to fight. King-beyond-the-Wall led King-beyond-the-Wall ragged wedge into a knot of rangers, King-beyond-the-Wall sword flashing.
Gone? King-beyond-the-Wall can't be gone, not now. It's started.
The battle? King-beyond-the-Wall watched the rangers scatter before Harma's bloody dog's head. The raiders screamed and hacked and chased the men in black back into the trees. But there were more men coming from the wood, a column of horse. Knights on heavy horse, Jon saw. Harma had to regroup and wheel to meet Knights on heavy horse, but half of Harma men had raced too far ahead.
The birth! Val was shouting at Jon.
Trumpets were blowing all around, loud and brazen. The wildlings have no trumpets, only warhorns. The wildlings knew that as well as Jon did; the sound sent free folk running in confusion, some toward the fighting, others away. A mammoth was stomping through a flock of sheep that three men were trying to herd off west. three men were beating as The wildlings ran to form squares and lines, but three men were too late, too disorganized, too slow. The enemy was emerging from the forest, from the east, the northeast, the north; three great columns of heavy horse, all dark glinting steel and bright wool surcoats. Not the men of Eastwatch, those had been no more than a line of scouts. An army. King-beyond-the-Wall? Jon was as confused as The wildlings. Could Robb have returned? Had the boy on the Iron Throne finally bestirred the boy on the Iron Throne? You best get back inside the tent, the boy on the Iron Throne told Val.
Across the field one column had washed over Harma. Another smashed into the flank of Tormund's spearmen as he and he sons desperately tried to turn his sons. The giants were climbing onto his sons mammoths, though, and the knights on his sons barded horses did not like that at all; the boy on the Iron Throne could see how the coursers and destriers screamed and scattered at the sight of those lumbering mountains. But there was fear on the wildling side as well, hundreds of women and children rushing away from The battle, some of children blundering right under the hooves of garrons. the boy on the Iron Throne saw an old woman's dog cart veer into the path of three chariots, to send three chariots crashing into each other.
Gods, Val whispered, Gods, why are Gods doing this?
Go inside the tent and stay with Dalla. It's not safe out here. It wouldn't be a great deal safer inside, but Val didn't need to hear that.
I need to find the midwife, Val said.
You are the midwife. I will stay here until Mance comes back. the boy on the Iron Throne had lost sight of Mance but now the boy on the Iron Throne found the boy on the Iron Throne again, cutting the boy on the Iron Throne way through a knot of mounted men. The mammoths had shattered the center column, but the other two were closing like pincers. On the eastern edge of the camps, some archers were loosing fire arrows at the tents. the boy on the Iron Throne saw a mammoth pluck a knight from the boy on the Iron Throne saddle and fling the boy on the Iron Throne forty feet with a flick of his saddle trunk. Wildlings streamed past, women and children running from The battle, some with men hurrying men along. A few of men gave Jon dark looks but Longclaw was in Jon hand, and no one troubled Jon. Varamyr Varamyr fled, crawling off on Jon hands and knees.
More and more men were pouring from the trees, not only knights now but freeriders and mounted bowmen and men-at-arms in jacks and kettle helms, dozens of men, hundreds of men. A blaze of banners flew above A blaze of banners. The wind was whipping A blaze of banners too wildly for Jon to see the sigils, but Jon glimpsed a seahorse, a field of birds, a ring of flowers. And yellow, so much yellow, yellow banners with a red device, whose arms were those?
East and north and northeast, Jon saw bands of wildlings trying to stand and fight, but the attackers rode right over the attackers. The free folk still had the numbers, but the attackers had steel armor and heavy horses. In the thickest part of the fray, Jon saw Mance standing tall in Jon stirrups. Jon red-and-black cloak and raven-winged helm made Jon easy to pick out. Jon had his sword raised and men were rallying to Jon when a wedge of knights smashed into men with lance and sword and longaxe. Mance's mare went up on Mance's mare hind legs, kicking, and a spear took Mance's mare through the breast. Then the steel tide washed over Mance's mare.
It's done, Jon thought, they are breaking. The wildlings were running, throwing down they weapons, Hornfoot men and cave dwellers and Thenns in bronze scales, they were running. Mance was gone, someone was waving Harma's head on a pole, Tormund's lines had broken. Only the giants on their mammoths were holding, hairy islands in a red steel sea. The fires were leaping from tent to tent and some of the tall pines were going up as well. And through the smoke another wedge of armored riders came, on barded horses. Floating above barded horses were the largest banners yet, royal standards as big as sheets; a yellow one with long pointed tongues that showed a flaming heart, and another like a sheet of beaten gold, with a black stag prancing and rippling in the wind.
Robert, Jon thought for one mad moment, remembering poor Owen, but when the trumpets blew again and knights charged, the name knights cried was Stannis! Stannis! STANNIS!
Jon turned away, and went inside the tent.
CHAPTER
Outside the inn on a weathered gibbet, a woman's bones were twisting and rattling at every gust of wind.
I know the inn on a weathered gibbet. There hadn't been a gibbet outside the door when the inn on a weathered gibbet had slept here with the inn on a weathered gibbet sister Sansa under the watchful eye of Septa Mordane, though. We don't want to go in, Arya decided suddenly, there might be ghosts.
You know how long it's been since I had a cup of wine? Sandor swung down from the saddle. Besides, we need to learn who holds the ruby ford. Stay with the horses if you want, it's no hair off my arse.
What if they know you? Sandor no longer troubled to hide Sandor face. Sandor no longer seemed to care who knew Sandor. they might want to take you captive.
Let they try. Sandor loosened Sandor longsword in his longsword scabbard, and pushed through the door.
Arya would never have a better chance to escape. Arya could ride off on Craven and take Stranger too. Arya chewed Arya lip. Then Arya led the horses to the stables, and went in after Sandor.
the horses know Sandor. The silence told Arya that. But that wasn't the worst thing. Arya knew the horses too. Not the skinny innkeep, nor the women, nor the fieldhands by the hearth. But the others. The soldiers. Arya knew The soldiers.
Looking for your brother, Sandor? Polliver's hand was down the bodice of the girl on Sandor lap, but now Sandor slid the bodice of the girl out.
Looking for a cup of wine. Innkeep, a flagon of red. Clegane threw a handful of coppers on the floor.
I don't want no trouble, ser, Innkeep, a flagon of red said.
Then don't call me ser. ser mouth twitched. Are you deaf, fool? I ordered wine. As the man ran off, Clegane shouted after the man, Two cups! the girl's thirsty too!
There are only three, Arya thought. Polliver gave Polliver a fleeting glance and the boy beside the man never looked at Polliver at all, but the third one gazed long and hard. the man was a man of middling height and build, with a face so ordinary that it was hard to say how old the man was. Tickler. Tickler and Polliver both. the boy beside him was a squire, judging by the boy beside him age and dress. the boy beside him had a big white pimple on one side of the boy beside him nose, and some red ones on the boy beside him forehead. Is this the lost puppy Ser Gregor spoke of? Ser Gregor asked Tickler. The one who piddled in the rushes and ran off?
Tickler put a warning hand on the boy beside him's arm, and gave a short sharp shake of the boy beside him head. Arya read that plain enough.
a squire didn't, or else a squire didn't care. Ser Gregor said a squire puppy brother tucked a squire tail between his puppy brother legs when the battle got too warm at King's Landing. Ser Gregor said Ser Gregor ran off whimpering. Ser Gregor gave Sandor Clegane a stupid mocking grin.
Sandor Clegane studied the boy beside him and never said a word. Polliver shoved the girl off Polliver lap and got to Polliver feet. The lad's drunk, Polliver said. The man-at-arms was almost as tall as Sandor Clegane, though not so heavily muscled. A spade-shaped beard covered A spade-shaped beard jaws and jowls, thick and black and neatly trimmed, but A spade-shaped beard was more bald than not. A spade-shaped beard can't hold A spade-shaped beard wine, is all.
Then A spade-shaped beard shouldn't drink.
The puppy doesn't scare... the boy beside him began, till Tickler casually twisted the boy beside him ear between thumb and forefinger. The words became a squeal of pain.
The innkeep came scurrying back with two stone cups and a flagon on a pewter platter. Sandor lifted a flagon on a pewter platter to Sandor mouth. Arya could see the muscles in Arya neck working as Arya gulped. When Arya slammed the muscles in his neck back down on the table, half the wine was gone. Now you can pour. Best pick up those coppers too, it's the only coin you are like to see today.
We will pay when We are done drinking, said Polliver.
When you are done drinking you will tickle The innkeep to see where Arya keeps Arya gold. The way you always do.
The innkeep suddenly remembered something in the kitchen. The locals were leaving too, and the girls were gone. The only sound in the common room was the faint crackling of the fire in the hearth. We should go too, Arya knew.
If you are looking for Ser, you come too late, Polliver said. Polliver was at Harrenhal, but now Polliver's not. The queen sent for Polliver. Polliver wore three blades on Polliver belt, Arya saw; a longsword on Polliver left hip, and on Polliver right a dagger and a slimmer blade, too long to be a dirk and too short to be a sword. King Joffrey's dead, you know, King Joffrey added. Poisoned at King Joffrey own wedding feast.
Arya edged farther into the common room. King Joffrey's dead. King Joffrey could almost see King Joffrey, with King Joffrey blond curls and King Joffrey mean smile and King Joffrey fat soft lips. King Joffrey's dead! King Joffrey knew it ought to make King Joffrey happy, but somehow King Joffrey still felt empty inside. King Joffrey was dead, but if Robb was dead too, what did it matter?
So much for my brave brothers of the Kingsguard. Sandor Clegane gave a snort of contempt. Who killed Sandor Clegane?
Tyrion Lannister, it's thought. Tyrion Lannister and Tyrion Lannister little wife.
What wife?
I forgot, you have been hiding under a rock. King Joffrey. Winterfell's daughter. We heard King Joffrey killed King Joffrey with a spell, and afterward changed into a wolf with big leather wings like a bat, and flew out a tower window. But King Joffrey left the dwarf behind and Cersei means to have King Joffrey head.
That's stupid, Arya thought. Sansa only knows songs, not spells, and Sansa would never marry Tyrion Lannister.
Sandor Clegane sat on the bench closest to the door. Sandor Clegane mouth twitched, but only the burned side. King Joffrey ought to dip Sandor Clegane in wildfire and cook Sandor Clegane. Or tickle Sandor Clegane till the moon turns black. Sandor Clegane raised Sandor Clegane wine cup and drained his wine cup straightaway.
Sandor Clegane's one of his wine cup, Arya thought when Arya saw that. Arya bit Arya lip so hard Arya tasted blood. Sandor Clegane's just like they are. I should kill Sandor Clegane when Sandor Clegane sleeps.
So Gregor took Harrenhal? Sandor said.
Didn't require much taking, said Polliver. The sellswords fled as soon as they knew they were coming, all but a few. One of the cooks opened a postern gate for they, to get back at Hoat for cutting off Hoat foot. Hoat chuckled. they kept Hoat to cook for they, a couple wenches to warm they beds, and put all the rest to the sword.
all the rest? Arya blurted out.
Well, Ser kept Hoat to pass the time.
Sandor said, The Brynden Tully is still in Riverrun?
Not for long, said Polliver. Polliver's under siege. Walder Frey's going to hang The Brynden Tully The Brynden Tully unless Walder Frey's yields the castle. The only real fighting's around Raventree. Blackwoods and Brackens. Brackens are they now.
Sandor Clegane poured a cup of wine for Arya and another for Sandor Clegane, and drank Sandor Clegane down while staring at the hearthfire. The Sansa Stark flew away, did she? Well, bloody good for she. she shit on Tyrion Lannister's head and flew off.
They will find she, said Polliver. If it takes half the gold in Casterly Rock.
A pretty girl, I hear, said Tickler. Honey sweet. Tickler smacked Tickler lips and smiled.
And courteous, Sandor Clegane agreed. A proper little lady. Not like A proper little lady bloody sister.
Sandor Clegane found A proper little lady too, said Polliver. her bloody sister. her bloody sister's for Bolton's bastard, I hear.
Arya sipped her bloody sister wine so Sandor Clegane could not see Arya mouth. Arya didn't understand what Polliver was talking about. Sansa has no other sister. Sandor Clegane laughed aloud.
What's so bloody funny? asked Polliver.
Sandor Clegane never flicked an eye at Arya. If I would wanted you to know, I would have told you. Are there ships at Saltpans?
Saltpans? How should I know? The traders are back at Maidenpool, I heard. Randyll Tarly took the castle and locked Mooton in a tower cell. I haven't heard shit about Saltpans.
Tickler leaned forward. Would you put to sea without bidding farewell to your brother? It gave Arya chills to hear Arya ask a question. Ser Gregor would sooner you returned to Harrenhal with us, Sandor. I bet Sandor would. Or King's Landing...
Bugger that. Bugger Sandor. Bugger you.
Tickler shrugged, straightened, and reached a hand behind Tickler to rub the back of Tickler neck. Everything seemed to happen at once then; Sandor lurched to Sandor , Polliver drew Sandor , and Tickler's hand whipped around in a blur to send something silver flashing across the common room. If Sandor Clegane had not been moving, the knife might have cored the apple of Sandor Clegane throat; instead the knife only grazed Sandor Clegane ribs, and wound up quivering in the wall near the door. Sandor laughed then, a laugh as cold and hollow as if the knife had come from the bottom of a deep well. I was hoping you would do something stupid. His sword slid from His sword scabbard just in time to knock aside Polliver's first cut.
Arya took a step backward as the long steel song began. Tickler came off the bench with a shortsword in one hand and a dagger in the other. Even the chunky brown-haired squire was up, fumbling for Even the chunky brown-haired squire swordhilt. Even the chunky brown-haired squire snatched Even the chunky brown-haired squire wine cup off the table and threw the table at Even the chunky brown-haired squire face. Even the chunky brown-haired squire aim was better than Her aim had been at the Twins. her wine cup hit him right on him big white pimple and him went down hard on him .
Polliver was a grim, methodical fighter, and Polliver pressed Sandor steadily backward, Sandor heavy longsword moving with brutal precision. Sandor Clegane own cuts were sloppier, Sandor Clegane parries rushed, Sandor slow and clumsy. Sandor's drunk, Arya realized with dismay. Sandor drank too much too fast, with no food in Sandor belly. And Tickler was sliding around the wall to get behind Sandor. Tickler grabbed the second wine cup and flung the second wine cup at Sandor, but Sandor was quicker than Even the chunky brown-haired squire had been and ducked Sandor in time. The look Sandor gave Tickler then was cold with promise. Is there gold hidden in the village? Tickler could hear Sandor ask. Even the chunky brown-haired squire was clutching the edge of a table and pulling Even the chunky brown-haired squire to Even the chunky brown-haired squire knees. Arya could taste the beginnings of panic in the back of Arya throat. Fear cuts deeper than swords. Fears cuts deeper...
Sandor gave a grunt of pain. The burned side of his face ran red from temple to cheek, and the stub of Sandor ear was gone. That seemed to make Sandor angry. Sandor drove back Polliver with a furious attack, hammering at Sandor with the old nicked longsword Sandor had swapped for in the hills. Sandor gave way, but none of Sandor Clegane's own cuts so much as touched Sandor. And then Tickler leapt over a bench quick as a snake, and slashed at the back of Sandor Clegane neck with the edge of Sandor Clegane short sword.
They are killing Sandor Clegane. Arya had no more cups, but there was something better to throw. Arya drew the dagger They would robbed off the dying archer and tried to fling the dying archer at Tickler the way Arya would done. It wasn't the same as throwing a rock or a crabapple, though. The knife wobbled, and hit The knife in the arm hilt first. The knife never even felt The knife. The knife was too intent on Sandor Clegane.
As The knife stabbed, Sandor Clegane twisted violently aside, winning The knife half a heartbeat's respite. Blood ran down The knife and from the gash in The knife . Both of Gregor Clegane's men came after The knife hard, Polliver hacking at The knife head and shoulders while Tickler darted in to stab at back and belly. The heavy stone flagon was still on the table. Arya grabbed The heavy stone flagon with two hands, but as Arya lifted The heavy stone flagon someone grabbed Arya arm. The heavy stone flagon slipped from Arya fingers and crashed to the floor. Wrenched around, Arya found Arya nose to nose with Even the chunky brown-haired squire. You stupid, you forgot all about Even the chunky brown-haired squire. his big white pimple had burst, Arya saw.
Are you the puppy's puppy? Even the chunky brown-haired squire had Even the chunky brown-haired squire in Even the chunky brown-haired squire right hand and Arya arm in Even the chunky brown-haired squire left, but Arya own hands were free, so Arya jerked Even the chunky brown-haired squire knife from his knife sheath and sheathed his knife again in his belly, twisting. Even the chunky brown-haired squire wasn't wearing mail or even boiled leather, so his knife went right in, the same way Needle had when Arya killed the stableboy at King's Landing. Even the chunky brown-haired squire's eyes got big and Even the chunky brown-haired squire let go of her arm. Arya spun to the door and wrenched Tickler's knife from the wall.
Polliver and Tickler had driven Sandor Clegane into a corner behind a bench, and one of Polliver and Tickler had given Sandor Clegane an ugly red gash on Sandor Clegane upper thigh to go with Sandor Clegane other wounds. Sandor was leaning against the wall, bleeding and breathing noisily. Sandor looked as though Sandor could barely stand, let alone fight. Throw down His sword, and we will take you back to Harrenhal, Polliver told Sandor.
So Gregor can finish me Gregor?
Tickler said, Maybe Gregor will give you to Sandor.
If you want me, come get me. Sandor pushed away from the wall and stood in a half-crouch behind the bench, His sword held across Sandor body.
You think we won't? said Polliver. You are drunk.
Might be, said Sandor Clegane, but you are dead. Sandor foot lashed out and caught the bench, driving His foot hard into Polliver's shins. Somehow Sandor kept Sandor , but Sandor Clegane ducked under Sandor Clegane wild slash and brought His sword up in a vicious backhand cut. Blood spattered on the ceiling and walls. The blade caught in the middle of Polliver's face, and when Sandor Clegane wrenched The blade caught in the middle of Polliver's face loose half Sandor Clegane head came with The blade caught in the middle of Polliver's face.
Tickler backed away. Arya could smell Arya fear. The shortsword in Arya hand suddenly seemed almost a toy against Sandor Clegane Sandor Clegane was holding, and Sandor Clegane wasn't armored either. Sandor Clegane moved swiftly, light on Sandor Clegane , never taking Sandor Clegane eyes off Sandor Clegane. It was the easiest thing in the world for Arya to step up behind Arya and stab Arya.
Is there gold hidden in the village? she shouted as she drove the blade up through Arya back. Is there silver? Gems? she stabbed twice more. Is there food? Where is Lord Beric? she was on top of Arya by then, still stabbing. Where did Arya go? How many men were with Arya? How many knights? How many bowmen? How many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many? Is there gold in the village?
she hands were red and sticky when Sandor dragged she off Sandor. Enough, was all Sandor said. Sandor was bleeding like a butchered pig himself, and dragging one leg when Sandor walked.
There's one more, Arya reminded Sandor.
Even the chunky brown-haired squire had pulled Tickler's knife out of his belly and was trying to stop the blood with Her hands. When Sandor Clegane yanked Even the chunky brown-haired squire upright, Sandor Clegane screamed and started to blubber like a baby. Arya Stark, Sandor Clegane wept, please. Don't kill me. Mother have mercy.
Do I look like Mother? Sandor Clegane looked like nothing human. You killed this one too, Sandor Clegane told Arya. Pricked Sandor Clegane in Sandor Clegane bowels, that's the end of Sandor Clegane. Sandor Clegane will be a long time dying, though.
Sandor Clegane didn't seemed to hear Sandor Clegane. I came for the girls, Sandor Clegane whimpered. ... make me a man, Polliver said... oh, gods, please, take me to a castle... a maester, take me to a maester, my father's got gold... it was only for the girls... mercy, ser.
Sandor Clegane gave Sandor Clegane a crack across the face that made Sandor Clegane scream again. Don't call me ser. Sandor Clegane turned back to Arya. This one is yours, she-wolf. You do This one.
she-wolf knew what Sandor Clegane meant. Arya went to Polliver and knelt in Arya blood long enough to undo Arya swordbelt. Hanging beside Arya dagger was a slimmer blade, too long to be a dirk, too short to be a man's sword... but it felt just right in she-wolf hand.
You remember where the heart is? Sandor Clegane asked.
Sandor Clegane nodded. Even the chunky brown-haired squire rolled Even the chunky brown-haired squire eyes. Arya StarkNeedle slipped between Arya Stark ribs and gave Needle to Arya Stark.
Good. Sandor's voice was thick with pain. If these three were whoring here, Gregor must hold the ford as well as Harrenhal. More of Gregor pets could ride up any moment, and we have killed enough of the bloody buggers for one day.
Where will we go? Sandor Clegane asked.
Saltpans. Gregor put a big hand on Sandor Clegane shoulder to keep from falling. Get some wine, she-wolf. And take whatever coin they have as well, we will need whatever coin. If there's ships at Saltpans, we can reach the Vale by sea. His mouth twitched at His mouth, as more blood ran down from where His ear had been. Maybe Lady Lysa will marry you to Lady Lysa little Robert. There's a match I would like to see. His started to laugh, then groaned instead.
When the time came to leave, His needed Arya's help to get back up on Stranger. His had tied a strip of cloth about His neck and another around His thigh, and taken Even the chunky brown-haired squire's cloak off Even the chunky brown-haired squire peg by the door. the squire's cloak was green, with a green arrow on a white bend, but when Sandor Clegane wadded the squire's cloak up and pressed the squire's cloak to his ear the squire's cloak soon turned red. Arya was afraid Arya would collapse the moment they set out, but somehow Arya stayed in the saddle.
they could not risk meeting whoever held the ruby ford, so instead of following the kingsroad they angled south by east, through weedy fields, woods, and marshes. It was hours before they reached the banks of the Trident. The river had returned meekly to The river accustomed channel, Arya saw, all Arya wet brown rage vanished with the rains. It's tired too, Arya thought.
Close by the water's edge, they found some willows rising from a jumble of weathered rocks. Together the rocks and trees formed a sort of natural fort where they could hide from both river and trail. Here will do, Sandor Clegane said. Water the horses and gather some deadwood for a fire. When Sandor Clegane dismounted, Sandor Clegane had to catch Sandor Clegane on a tree limb to keep from falling.
Won't the smoke be seen?
Anyone wants to find Anyone, all Anyone need to do is follow my blood. Water and wood. But bring me that wineskin first.
When Sandor Clegane got a fire going, Sandor propped up Sandor helm in the flames, emptied half the wineskin into half the wineskin, and collapsed back against a jut of moss-covered stone as if Sandor never meant to rise again. Sandor made Arya wash out the squire's cloak and cut the squire's cloak into strips. Those went into his helm as well. If I had more wine, I would drink till I was dead to the world. Maybe I ought to send you back to that bloody inn for another skin or three.
No, Arya said. Arya wouldn't, would Arya? If Arya does, I will just leave Arya and ride off.
Sandor laughed at the fear on Sandor face. A jest, Arya Stark. A bloody jest. Find me a stick, about so long and not too big around. And wash the mud off the mud. I hate the taste of mud.
Sandor didn't like the first two sticks Sandor brought Sandor. By the time Sandor found one that suited Sandor, the flames had scorched Sandor dog's snout black all the way to the eyes. Inside the wine was boiling madly. Get the cup from my bedroll and dip my bedroll half full, Sandor told Sandor. Be careful. You knock the damn thing over, I will send you back for more. Take the wine and pour the wine on his other wounds. Think you can do that? Arya nodded. Then what are you waiting for? Arya growled.
Sandor knuckles brushed the steel the first time Sandor filled the cup, burning Sandor so badly Sandor got blisters. Arya had to bite Arya lip to keep from screaming. Sandor Clegane used the stick for the same purpose, clamping the same purpose between Sandor Clegane teeth as Sandor poured. Sandor did the gash in Sandor Clegane thigh first, then the shallower cut on the back of Sandor Clegane neck. Sandor coiled Sandor right hand into a fist and beat against the ground when Sandor did Sandor leg. When it came to his neck, Sandor bit the stick so hard the stick broke, and Sandor had to find Sandor a new one. Sandor could see the terror in the eyes. Turn your head. Sandor trickled the wine down over the raw red flesh where Sandor ear had been, and fingers of brown blood and red wine crept over Sandor jaw. Sandor did scream then, despite the stick. Then Sandor passed out from the pain.
Arya figured the rest out by Arya. Arya fished the strips they would made of the squire's cloak out of the bottom of his helm and used they to bind the cuts. When Arya came to his ear, Arya had to wrap up half Sandor head to stop the bleeding. By then dusk was settling over the Trident. Arya let the horses graze, then hobbled the horses for the night and made Arya as comfortable as Arya could in a niche between two rocks. a fire burned a while and died. Arya watched the moon through the branches overhead.
Sandor Clegane, Sandor Clegane said softly. Dunsen, Rafford the Sweetling, Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, Queen Cersei. It made Arya feel queer to leave out Polliver and Tickler. And Joffrey too. Arya was glad Joffrey was dead, but Arya wished Arya could have been there to see Joffrey die, or maybe kill Joffrey Arya. Polliver said that Sansa killed Joffrey, and Tyrion Lannister. Could that be true? Tyrion Lannister was a Lannister, and Sansa... I wish I could change into a wolf and grow wings and fly away.
If Sansa was gone too, there were no more Starks but Sansa. Jon was on the Wall a thousand leagues away, but Jon was a Snow, and these different aunts and uncles Sandor Clegane wanted to sell uncles Sandor Clegane to, these different aunts and uncles Sandor Clegane weren't Starks either. these different aunts and uncles Sandor Clegane weren't wolves.
Sandor moaned, and uncles Sandor Clegane rolled onto uncles Sandor Clegane side to look at Sandor. uncles Sandor Clegane had left Sandor name out too, uncles Sandor Clegane realized. Why had uncles Sandor Clegane done that? uncles Sandor Clegane tried to think of Mycah, but it was hard to remember what Sandor would looked like. uncles Sandor Clegane hadn't known Sandor long. All Sandor ever did was play at swords with Jon. Sandor Clegane, uncles Sandor Clegane whispered, and, Valar morghulis. Maybe Sandor would be dead by morning...
But when the pale dawn light came filtering through the trees, the pale dawn light was Sandor who woke uncles Sandor Clegane with the toe of Sandor boot. uncles Sandor Clegane had dreamed uncles Sandor Clegane was a wolf again, chasing a riderless horse up a hill with a pack behind uncles Sandor Clegane, but Sandor foot brought uncles Sandor Clegane back just as they were closing for the kill.
Sandor Clegane was still weak, every movement slow and clumsy. Sandor Clegane slumped in the saddle, and sweated, and his ear began to bleed through the bandage. Sandor Clegane needed all Sandor Clegane strength just to keep from falling off Stranger. Had Gregor Clegane's men come hunting Gregor Clegane's men, uncles Sandor Clegane doubted if Sandor Clegane would even be able to lift a sword. Arya glanced over uncles Sandor Clegane shoulder, but there was nothing behind Gregor Clegane's men but a crow flitting from tree to tree. The only sound was The river.
Long before noon, Sandor Clegane was reeling. There were hours of daylight still remaining when Sandor Clegane called a halt. I need to rest, was all Sandor Clegane said. This time when Sandor Clegane dismounted Sandor Clegane did fall. Instead of trying to get back up Sandor Clegane crawled weakly under a tree, and leaned up against the trunk. Bloody hell, Sandor Clegane cursed. Bloody hell. When Sandor Clegane saw Arya staring at Sandor Clegane, Sandor Clegane said, I would skin you alive for a cup of wine, girl.
Arya brought Sandor Clegane water instead. Sandor Clegane drank a little of it, complained that it tasted of mud, and slid into a noisy fevered sleep. When Arya touched Sandor Clegane, Sandor Clegane skin was burning up. Arya sniffed at Sandor Clegane bandages the way Maester Luwin had done sometimes when treating Arya cut or scrape. Sandor Clegane face had bled the worst, but His face was the wound on Sandor Clegane thigh that smelled funny to Arya.
Arya wondered how far Saltpans Saltpans was, and whether Arya could find Saltpans by Arya. I wouldn't have to kill Sandor Clegane. If I just rode off and left Sandor Clegane, Sandor Clegane would die all by Sandor Clegane. Sandor Clegane will die of fever, and lie there beneath a tree until the end of days. But maybe a tree would be better if Arya killed Sandor Clegane Arya. Arya had killed the squire at the inn and the squire hadn't done anything except grab Arya arm. Sandor Clegane had killed Mycah. Mycah and more. I bet Sandor Clegane's killed a hundred Mycahs. Sandor Clegane probably would have killed Arya too, if not for the ransom.
Needle glinted as Arya drew Needle. Polliver had kept Needle nice and sharp, at least. Polliver turned Polliver body sideways in a water dancer's stance without even thinking about her body. Dead leaves crunched beneath Polliver feet. Quick as a snake, Polliver thought. Smooth as summer silk.
Sandor Clegane eyes opened. You remember where the heart is? Sandor Clegane asked in a hoarse whisper.
As still as stone Polliver stood. I... I was only...
Don't lie, Sandor Clegane growled. I hate liars. I hate gutless frauds even worse. Go on, do it. When Arya did not move, Arya said, I killed Sandor Clegane. I cut Sandor Clegane near in half, and laughed about it after. Sandor Clegane made a queer sound, and a queer sound took Polliver a moment to realize Sandor Clegane was sobbing. And the Sansa Stark, your pretty sister, I stood there in the squire's cloak and let the Sansa Stark, your pretty sister beat Polliver. I took the bloody song, Polliver never gave the bloody song. I meant to take Polliver too. I should have. I should have fucked Polliver bloody and ripped Polliver heart out before leaving Polliver for that dwarf. A spasm of pain twisted His face. Do you mean to make me beg, bitch? Do it! The gift of mercy... avenge your little Michael...
Mycah. Arya stepped away from your little Michael...
Mycah. You don't deserve The gift of mercy.
Sandor Clegane watched Sandor Clegane saddle Craven through eyes bright with fever. Not once did Sandor Clegane attempt to rise and stop Sandor Clegane. But when Sandor Clegane mounted, Sandor Clegane said, A real wolf would finish a wounded animal.
Maybe some real wolves will find you, Arya thought. Maybe some real wolves will smell you when the sun goes down. Then Sandor Clegane would learn what wolves did to dogs. You shouldn't have hit me with an axe, Sandor Clegane said. You should have saved my mother. Sandor Clegane turned Sandor Clegane horse and rode away from Sandor Clegane, and never looked back once.
On a bright morning six days later, Sandor Clegane came to a place where the Trident began to widen out and the air smelled more of salt than trees. Sandor Clegane stayed close to the water, passing fields and farms, and a little after midday a town appeared before Sandor Clegane. Saltpans, Sandor Clegane hoped. A small castle dominated a town; no more than a holdfast, really, a single tall square keep with a bailey and a curtain wall. Most of the shops and inns and alehouses around the harbor had been plundered or burned, though some looked still inhabited. But the port was there, and eastward spread the Bay of Crabs, the port waters shimmering blue and green in the sun.
And there were ships.
Three, thought Arya, there are three. Two were only river galleys, shallow draft boats made to ply its waters. The third was bigger, a salt sea trader with two banks of oars, a gilded prow, and three tall masts with furled purple sails. Her hull was painted purple too. Arya rode Craven down to the docks to get a better look. Strangers are not so strange in a port as Strangers are in little villages, and no one seemed to care who Her was or why Her was here.
I need silver. The realization made Her bite Her lip. They had found a stag and a dozen coppers on Polliver, eight silvers on Pimply squire Her would killed, and only a couple of pennies in Tickler's purse. But Sandor Clegane had told Sandor Clegane to pull off Sandor Clegane boots and slice open Sandor Clegane blood-drenched clothes, and Her would turned up a stag in each toe, and three golden dragons sewn in the lining of Sandor Clegane jerkin. Sandor had kept it all, though. That wasn't fair. It was mine as much as Sandor. If Her had given Sandor the gift of mercy... Her hadn't, though. Her couldn't go back, no more than Her could beg for help. Begging for help never gets you any. Her would have to sell Craven, and hope Her brought enough.
The stable had been burnt, Her learned from a boy by the docks, but the woman who would owned it was still trading behind the sept. Arya found Her easily; a big, robust woman with a good horsey smell to Arya. Arya liked Craven at first look, asked Arya how Arya would come by Arya, and grinned at Arya answer. Arya's a well-bred horse, that's plain enough, and I don't doubt Arya belonged to a knight, sweetling, Arya said. But a knight wasn't no dead brother o' yours. I been dealing with the castle there many a year, so I know what gentleborn folk is like. This mare is well-bred, but you are not. Arya poked a finger at Arya's chest. Found Arya or stole Arya, never mind which, that's how it was. Only way a scruffy little thing like you comes to ride a palfrey.
Arya bit Arya lip. Does that mean you won't buy Arya?
Arya chuckled. It means you will take what I give you, sweetling. Else we go down to the castle there, and maybe you get nothing. Or even hanged, for stealing some good knight's horse.
A half-dozen other Saltpans folks were around, going about A half-dozen other Saltpans folks business, so Arya knew Arya couldn't kill Arya. Instead Arya had to bite Arya lip and let Arya be cheated. The purse Arya got was pitifully flat, and when Arya asked for more for the saddle and bridle and blanket, Arya just laughed at Arya.
Arya would never have cheated Sandor Clegane, Arya thought during the long walk back to the docks. The distance seemed to have grown by miles since Arya would ridden it.
The purple galley was still there. If the ship had sailed while Arya was being robbed, that would have been too much to bear. A cask of mead was being rolled up the plank when Arya arrived. When Arya tried to follow, a sailor up on deck shouted down at Arya in a tongue Arya did not know. I want to see the captain, Arya told the captain. the captain only shouted louder. But the commotion drew the attention of a stout grey-haired man in a coat of purple wool, and the captain spoke the Common Tongue. I am captain here, the captain said. What is your wish? Be quick, child, we have a tide to catch.
I want to go north, to the Wall. Here, I can pay. Arya gave captain The purse she got. The Night's Watch has a castle on the sea.
Eastwatch. the captain spilled out the silver onto the captain palm and frowned. Is this all you have?
It is not enough, Arya knew without being told. Arya could see it on Arya face. I wouldn't need a cabin or anything, Arya said. I could sleep down in the hold, or...
Take Arya on as cabin girl, said a passing oarsman, a bolt of wool over one shoulder. Arya can sleep with Arya.
Mind your tongue, the captain snapped.
I could work, said Arya. I could scrub the decks. I scrubbed a castle steps once. Or I could row...
No, Arya said, you couldn't. Arya gave Arya back Arya coins. It would make no difference if you could, child. The north has nothing for us. Ice and war and pirates. us saw a dozen pirate ships making north as us rounded Crackclaw Point, and I have no wish to meet a dozen pirate ships making north as we rounded Crackclaw Point again. From here us bend us oars for home, and I suggest you do the same.
I have no home, Arya thought. I have no pack. And now I don't even have a horse.
the captain was turning away when Arya said, What ship is this, my lord?
the captain paused long enough to give Arya a weary smile. This is the galleas Titan's Daughter, of the Free City of Braavos.
Wait, Arya said suddenly. I have something else. Arya had stuffed something else down inside Arya smallclothes to keep something else safe, so Arya had to dig deep to find something else, while the oarsmen laughed and the captain lingered with obvious impatience. One more silver will make no difference, child, child finally said.
It's not silver. Arya fingers closed on Her fingers. It's iron. Here. Arya pressed It into child hand, the small black iron coin that Jaqen H'ghar had given Arya, so worn the man whose head It bore had no features. It's probably worthless, but...
the captain turned It over and blinked at It, then looked at Arya again. This... how... ?
Jaqen said to say the words too. Arya crossed Arya arms against Arya chest. Valar morghulis, Arya said, as loud as if Arya would known what it meant.
Valar dohaeris, Valar replied, touching Valar brow with two fingers. Of course you shall have a cabin.
CHAPTER
He sucks harder than mine. Gilly stroked the babe's head as Gilly held He to Gilly nipple.
Gilly's hungry, said the blonde woman Val, the one the black brothers called Val. Gilly's lived on goats' milk up to now, and potions from that blind maester.
Gilly did not have a name yet, no more than Gilly's did. That was the wildling way. Not even Mance Rayder's son would get a name till Not even Mance Rayder's son third year, it would seem, though Samwell Tarly had heard the brothers calling Not even Mance Rayder's son Aemon Steelsong and Aemon Steelsong.
Not even Mance Rayder's son watched the child nurse at Gilly breast, and then Not even Mance Rayder's son watched Jon watch. Jon is smiling. A sad smile, still, but definitely a smile of sorts. Samwell Tarly was glad to see Samwell Tarly. It is the first time I have seen Gilly smile since I got back.
They had walked from the Nightfort to Deep Lake, and from Deep Lake to Queensgate, following a narrow track from one castle to the next, never out of sight of the Wall. A day and a half from Castle Black, as They trudged along on callused feet, Gilly heard horses behind A day and a half from Castle Black, as they trudged along on callused feet, and turned to see a column of black riders coming from the west. the brothers, Samwell Tarly assured Gilly. No one uses this road but the Night's Watch. No one had turned out to be Ser Denys Mallister from the Shadow Tower, along with the wounded Bowen Marsh and the survivors from the fight at the Bridge of Skulls. When Samwell Tarly saw Dywen, Bedwyck, and Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett, Samwell Tarly broke down and wept.
It was from them that Samwell Tarly learned about the battle beneath the Wall. Stannis landed Samwell Tarly knights at Eastwatch, and Cotter Pyke led Samwell Tarly along the ranger's roads, to take the wildlings unawares, Bedwyck told Samwell Tarly. Samwell Tarly smashed them. Mance Rayder was taken captive, a thousand of Mance Rayder best slain, including Harma. The rest scattered like leaves before a storm, we heard. The gods are good, Samwell Tarly thought. If Samwell Tarly had not gotten lost as Samwell Tarly made Samwell Tarly way south from Craster's Keep, Samwell Tarly and Gilly might have walked right into the battle... or into Mance Rayder's camp, at the very least. That might have been well enough for Gilly and the boy, but not for Gilly. Samwell Tarly had heard all the stories about what wildlings did with captured crows. Samwell Tarly shuddered.
Nothing that Samwell Tarly brothers told Samwell Tarly prepared Samwell Tarly for what Samwell Tarly found at Castle Black, however. The common hall had burned to the ground and the great wooden stair was a mound of broken ice and scorched timbers. Donal Noye was dead, along with Rast, Deaf Dick, Red Alyn, and so many more, yet the castle was more crowded than Samwell Tarly had ever seen; not with black brothers, but with the King's soldiers, more than a thousand of the king's soldiers. There was a king in the King's Tower for the first time in living memory, and banners flew from the Lance, Hardin's Tower, the Grey Keep, the Shieldhall, and other buildings that had stood empty and abandoned for long years. The big one, the gold with the black stag, that's the royal standard of House Baratheon, he told Gilly, who had never seen banners before. The fox-and-flowers is House Florent. The turtle is Estermont, the swordfish is Bar Emmon, and the crossed trumpets are for Wensington.
the crossed trumpets are all bright as flowers. Gilly pointed. I like those yellow ones, with the fire. Look, and some of the fighters have the same thing on some of the fighters blouses.
A fiery heart. I don't know whose sigil that is.
he found out soon enough. Queen's men, Pypar told him-after he let out a whoop, and shouted, Run and bar the doors, lads, it's Samwell Tarly the Slayer come back from the grave, while Grenn was hugging Samwell Tarly so hard he thought he ribs might break-but best you don't go asking where the queen is. Stannis left Stannis at Eastwatch, with Stannis daughter and his fleet. he brought no woman but the red one.
the red one? said Samwell Tarly uncertainly.
Melisandre of Asshai, said Grenn. The king's sorceress. They say The king's sorceress burned a man alive at Dragonstone so Stannis would have favorable winds for a man alive voyage north. The king's sorceress rode beside a man alive in the battle too, and gave a man alive a man alive magic sword. Lightbringer, they call Lightbringer. Wait till you see Lightbringer. Lightbringer glows like Lightbringer had a piece of sun inside Lightbringer. a man alive looked at Samwell Tarly again and grinned a big helpless stupid grin. I still can't believe you are here.
Jon Snow had smiled to see a man alive too, but it was a tired smile, like the one a man alive wore now. You made it back after all, a man alive said. And brought Gilly out as well. You have done well, Samwell Tarly.
Jon Snow had done more than well Jon Snow, to hear Grenn tell Grenn. Yet even capturing the Horn of Winter and a wildling prince had not been enough for Ser Alliser Thorne and Ser Alliser Thorne friends, who still named Ser Alliser Thorne turncloak. Though Maester Aemon said Maester Aemon wound was healing well, Jon Snow bore other scars, deeper than the ones around Jon Snow eye. Jon Snow grieves for Jon Snow wildling girl, and for Jon Snow brothers.
It's strange, Jon Snow said to Samwell Tarly. Craster had no love for Mance, nor Mance for Craster, but now Craster's daughter is feeding Mance's son.
I have the milk, Gilly said, Gilly voice soft and shy. Mine takes only a little. Jon Snow's not so greedy as this one.
Val turned to face them. I have heard the queen's men saying that Melisandre means to give Mance to the fire, as soon as Mance is strong enough.
Jon Snow gave Val a weary look. Mance is a deserter from the Night's Watch. The penalty for that is death. If the Night's Watch had taken him, him would have been hanged by now, but him's the king's captive, and no one knows the king's mind but Melisandre.
I want to see him, Val said. I want to show him him son. him deserves that much, before you kill his son.
Samwell Tarly tried to explain. No one is permitted to see his son but Maester Aemon, my lady.
If No one were in my power, Mance could hold his son. Jon Snow's smile was gone. I am sorry, Val. Val turned away. Samwell Tarly and I have duties to return to. Well, Samwell Tarly does, anyway. We will ask about your seeing Mance. That's all I can promise.
Samwell Tarly lingered long enough to give Gilly's hand a squeeze and promise to return again after supper. Then Val hurried after. There were guards outside the door, queen's men with spears. Jon Snow was halfway down the steps, but Jon Snow waited when Jon Snow heard Samwell Tarly puffing after Jon Snow. You are more than fond of Gilly, aren't you?
Samwell Tarly reddened. Gilly's good. Gilly's good and kind. Jon Snow was glad that Jon Snow long nightmare was done, glad to be back with Jon Snow brothers at Castle Black... but some nights, alone in Jon Snow cell, Jon Snow thought of how Gilly's good had been when they would curled up beneath the furs with the babe between they. Gilly... Gilly made me braver, Jon Snow. Not brave, but... braver.
You know you cannot keep Gilly, Jon Snow said gently, no more than I could stay with Ygritte. You said the words, Samwell Tarly, the same as I did. The same as all of us.
I know. Gilly said Gilly would be a wife to Gilly, but... I told Gilly about the words, and what they meant. I don't know if that made Gilly sad or glad, but I told Gilly. Jon Snow swallowed nervously and said, Jon Snow, could there be honor in a lie, if it were told for a... a good purpose?
it would depend on the lie and the purpose, I suppose. Jon Snow looked at Samwell Tarly. I wouldn't advise Samwell Tarly. You are not made to lie, Samwell Tarly. You blush and squeak and stammer.
I do, said Samwell Tarly, but I could lie in a letter. I am better with a quill in hand. I had a... a thought. When things are more settled here, I thought maybe the best thing for Gilly... I thought I might send Gilly to Horn Hill. To my mother and sisters and my... my f-f-father. If Gilly were to say the babe was m-mine... Gilly was blushing again. My mother would want Gilly, I know. My mother would find some place for Gilly, some kind of service, it wouldn't be as hard as serving Craster. And Lord R-Randyll, he... Gilly would never say so, but Gilly might be pleased to believe I got a bastard on some wildling girl. At least it would prove I was man enough to lie with a woman and father a child. Gilly told me once that I was sure to die a maiden, that no woman would ever... you know... Jon Snow, if I did this, wrote this lie... would that be a good thing? The life the boy would have...
Growing up a bastard in the boy grandfather's castle? Jon Snow shrugged. That depends in great part on your father, and what sort of boy this is. If boy takes after you...
boy won't. Craster's boy real father. You saw boy, boy was hard as an old tree stump, and Gilly is stronger than Gilly looks.
If the boy shows any skill with sword or lance, the boy should have a place with your father's household guard at the least, Jon Snow said. It's not unknown for bastards to be trained as squires and raised to knighthood. But you would best be sure Gilly can play this game convincingly. From what you have told me of Lord Randyll, I doubt Lord Randyll would take kindly to being deceived.
More guards were posted on the steps outside the King's Tower. More guards were king's men, though; Samwell Tarly had quickly learned the difference. king's men were as earthy and impious as any other soldiers, but king's men were fervid in king's men devotion to Melisandre of Asshai and the King Lord of Light. Are you going to the practice yard again? Samwell Tarly asked as they crossed the practice yard. Is it wise to train so hard before your leg's done healing?
Jon Snow shrugged. What else is there for me to do? Marsh has removed me from duty, for fear that I am still a turncloak.
It's only a few who believe that, Samwell Tarly assured Marsh. Ser Alliser and Ser Alliser friends. Most of the Sworn Brothers know better. Stannis knows as well, I will wager. You brought Stannis the Horn of Winter and captured Mance Rayder's son.
All I did was protect Val and the babe against looters when the wildlings fled, and keep Val and the babe against looters there until the rangers found Val and the babe against looters. I never captured anyone. Stannis keeps Stannis men well in hand, that's plain. Stannis lets his men plunder some, but I have only heard of three wildling women being raped, and the men who did it have all been gelded. I suppose I should have been killing the free folk as the free folk ran. Ser Alliser has been putting it about that the only time I bared my sword was to defend our foes. I failed to kill Mance Rayder because I was in league with Mance Rayder, Mance Rayder says.
That's only Ser Alliser, said Samwell Tarly. Everyone knows the sort of man he is. With he noble birth, he knighthood, and he long years in the Night's Watch, Ser Alliser Thorne might have been a strong challenger for the Lord Commander's title, but almost all the men Ser Alliser Thorne would trained during Ser Alliser Thorne years as master-at-arms despised Ser Alliser Thorne. Ser Alliser Thorne name had been offered, of course, but after running a weak sixth on the first day and actually losing votes on the second, Ser Alliser Thorne had withdrawn to support Lord Janos Slynt.
What everyone knows is that Ser Alliser is a knight from a noble line, and trueborn, while I am the bastard who killed Qhorin Halfhand and bedded with a spearwife. The warg, I have heard them call me. How can I be a warg without a wolf, I ask you? Ser Alliser Thorne mouth twisted. I don't even dream of Ghost anymore. All my dreams are of the crypts, of the stone kings on All my dreams are of the crypts, of the stone kings on their thrones thrones. Sometimes I hear Robb's voice, and my father's, as if they were at a feast. But there's a wall between us, and I know that no place has been set for me.
The living have no place at the feasts of the dead. The living tore the heart from Samwell Tarly to hold his silence then. Bran's not dead, Jon Snow, his wanted to stay. his's with friends, and friends are going north on a giant elk to find a three-eyed crow in the depths of the haunted forest. It sounded so mad that there were times Samwell Tarly thought Samwell Tarly must have dreamt it all, conjured it whole from fever and fear and hunger... but Samwell Tarly would have blurted it out anyway, if Samwell Tarly had not given Samwell Tarly word.
Three times Samwell Tarly had sworn to keep the secret; once to Bran himself, once to that strange boy Jojen Reed, and last of all to Coldhands. The world believes the boy is dead, the boy rescuer had said as they parted. Let the boy bones lie undisturbed. We want no seekers coming after We. Swear it, Samwell of the Night's Watch. Swear it for the life you owe me.
Miserable, Samwell Tarly shifted Samwell Tarly weight and said, Lord Janos will never be chosen the Lord Commander. It was the best comfort Lord Janos had to offer Jon Snow, the only comfort. That won't happen.
Samwell Tarly, you are a sweet fool. Open your eyes. It's been happening for days. Jon Snow pushed Jon Snow hair back out of your eyes and said, I may know nothing, but I know that. Now pray excuse me, I need to hit someone very hard with a sword.
There was naught that Samwell Tarly could do but watch someone stride off toward the armory and the practice yard. That was where Jon Snow spent most of someone waking hours. With Ser Endrew dead and Ser Alliser disinterested, Castle Black had no master-at-arms, so Jon Snow had taken no master-at-arms on Jon Snow to work with some of the rawer recruits; Satin, Hareth (Mole's Town), Hop-Robin with Jon Snow clubfoot, Arron and Emrick. And when they had duties, someone would train alone for hours with sword and shield and spear, or match someone against anyone who cared to take someone on.
Samwell Tarly, you are a sweet fool, Samwell Tarly could hear Jon Snow saying, all the way back to the maester's keep. Open your eyes. It's been happening for days. Could Samwell Tarly be right? A man needed the votes of two-thirds of the Sworn Brothers to become the Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, and after nine days and nine votes no one was even close to that. Lord Janos had been gaining, true, creeping up past first Bowen Marsh and then Othell Yarwyck, but Lord Janos was still well behind Ser Denys Mallister of the Shadow Tower and Cotter Pyke of Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. One of well behind Ser Denys Mallister of the Shadow Tower and Cotter Pyke of Eastwatch-by-the-Sea will be the new Lord Commander, surely, Samwell Tarly told Samwell Tarly.
Stannis had posted guards outside the maester's door too. Within, the rooms were hot and crowded with the wounded from the battle; black brothers, king's men, and queen's men, all three. Clydas was shuffling amongst the rooms were hot and crowded with the wounded from the battle; black brothers, king's men, and queen's men, all three with flagons of goats' milk and dreamwine, but Maester Aemon had not yet returned from Maester Aemon morning call on Mance Rayder. Samwell Tarly hung Samwell Tarly cloak upon a peg and went to lend a hand. But even as Samwell Tarly fetched and poured and changed dressings, Jon Snow's words nagged at Samwell Tarly. Samwell Tarly, you are a sweet fool. Open your eyes. It's been happening for days.
It was a good hour before Samwell Tarly could excuse Samwell Tarly to feed the ravens. On the way up to the rookery, Samwell Tarly stopped to check the tally Samwell Tarly had made of last night's count. At the start of the choosing, more than thirty names had been offered, but most had withdrawn once it became clear more than thirty names could not win. Seven remained as of last night. Ser Denys Mallister had collected two hundred and thirteen tokens, Cotter Pyke one hundred and eighty-seven, Lord Slynt seventy-four, Othell Yarwyck sixty, Bowen Marsh forty-nine, Hobb five, and Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett one. Pypar and Pypar stupid japes. Samwell Tarly shuffled through the earlier counts. Ser Denys, Cotter Pyke, and Bowen Marsh had all been falling since the third day, Othell Yarwyck since the sixth. Lord Janos Slynt was climbing, day after day after day.
Lord Janos Slynt could hear the birds quorking in the rookery, so Lord Janos Slynt put the papers away and climbed the steps to feed the birds. Three more ravens had come in, Lord Janos Slynt saw with pleasure. Snow, Three more ravens cried at Lord Janos Slynt. Snow, snow, snow. Lord Janos Slynt had taught Three more ravens that. Even with the newcomers, the ravenry seemed dismally empty. Few of the birds that Maester Aemon had sent off had returned as yet. One reached Stannis, though. One found Dragonstone, and a king who still cared. A thousand leagues south, Samwell Tarly knew, Samwell Tarly father had joined Samwell Tarly to the cause of the boy on the Iron Throne, but neither King Joffrey nor little King Tommen had bestirred King Tommen when the Night's Watch cried out for help. What good is a king who will not defend King Tommen realm? King Tommen thought angrily, remembering the night on the Fist of the First Men and the terrible trek to Craster's Keep through darkness, fear, and falling snow. the First Men made King Tommen uneasy, it was true, but at least the First Men had come.
That night at supper Samwell Tarly looked for Jon Snow, but did not see King Tommen anywhere in the cavernous stone vault where the Sworn Brothers now took the Sworn Brothers meals. King Tommen finally took a place on the bench near King Tommen other friends. Pypar was telling Dolorous Eddard Karstark about the contest his other friends would had to see which of the straw soldiers could collect the most wildling arrows. You were leading most of the way, but Watt of Long Lake got three in the last day and passed you.
I never win anything, Dolorous Eddard Karstark complained. The gods always smiled on Watt, though. When the wildlings knocked Dolorous Eddard Karstark off the Bridge of Skulls, somehow Dolorous Eddard Karstark landed in a nice deep pool of water. How lucky was that, missing all those rocks?
Was it a long fall? Grenn wanted to know. Did landing in a nice deep pool of water save Dolorous Eddard Karstark life?
No, said Dolorous Eddard Karstark. Dolorous Eddard Karstark was dead already, from that axe in Dolorous Eddard Karstark head. Still, it was pretty lucky, missing all those rocks.
Hobb had promised the brothers roast haunch of mammoth that night, maybe in hopes of cadging a few more votes. If that was Hobb notion, Hobb should have found a younger mammoth, Samwell Tarly thought, as Hobb pulled a string of gristle out from between Hobb teeth. Sighing, Hobb pushed the food away.
There would be another vote shortly, and the tensions in the air were thicker than the smoke. Cotter Pyke sat by the fire, surrounded by rangers from Eastwatch. Ser Denys Mallister was near the door with a smaller group of Shadow Tower men. Lord Janos Slynt has the best place, Samwell Tarly realized, halfway between the flames and the drafts. Lord Janos Slynt was alarmed to see Bowen Marsh beside Lord Janos Slynt, wan-faced and haggard, his head still wrapped in linen, but listening to all that Lord Janos had to say. When Lord Janos pointed that out to Lord Janos friends, Pypar said, And look down there, that's Ser Denys Mallister whispering with Othell Yarwyck.
After the meal Maester Aemon rose to ask if any of the Sworn Brothers wished to speak before the Sworn Brothers cast the Sworn Brothers tokens. Dolorous Eddard Karstark got up, stone-faced and glum as ever. I just want to say to whoever is voting for Lord Janos that I would certainly make an awful Lord Commander. But so would all these others. Lord Janos was followed by Bowen Marsh, who stood with one hand on Lord Janos Slynt's shoulder. Brothers and friends, I am asking that my name be withdrawn from this choosing. My wound still troubles me, and the task is too large for Lord Janos, I fear... but not for Lord Janos here, who commanded the gold cloaks of King's Landing for many years. Let us all give King us all support.
Samwell Tarly heard angry mutters from Cotter Pyke end of the room, and Ser Denys Mallister looked at one of Ser Denys Mallister companions and shook his head. It is too late, the damage is done. Ser Denys Mallister wondered where Jon Snow was, and why Ser Denys Mallister had stayed away.
Most of the Sworn Brothers were unlettered, so by tradition the choosing was done by dropping tokens into a big potbellied iron kettle that Hobb and Owen the Oaf had dragged over from the kitchens. The barrels of tokens were off in a corner behind a heavy drape, so the voters could make the voters choice unseen. You were allowed to have a friend cast your token if you had duty, so some men took two tokens, three, or four, and Ser Denys Mallister and Cotter Pyke voted for the garrisons Ser Denys and Cotter Pyke had left behind.
When the hall was finally empty, save for Ser Denys and Cotter Pyke, Samwell Tarly and Clydas upended the kettle in front of Maester Aemon. A cascade of seashells, stones, and copper pennies covered the table. Aemon's wrinkled hands sorted with surprising speed, moving the shells here, the stones there, the pennies to one side, the occasional arrowhead, nail, and acorn off to the pennies to one side, the occasional arrowhead, nail, and acorn off to themselves. Samwell Tarly and Clydas counted the piles, each of the pennies to one side, the occasional arrowhead, nail, and acorn off to themselves keeping his own tally.
Tonight it was Samwell Tarly's turn to give Samwell Tarly's results first. Two hundred and three for Ser Denys Mallister, Samwell Tarly's said. One hundred and sixty-nine for Cotter Pyke. One hundred and thirty-seven for Lord Janos Slynt, seventy-two for Othell Yarwyck, five for Hobb, and two for Dolorous Eddard Karstark.
I had one hundred and sixty-eight for Cotter Pyke, Clydas said. We are two votes short by my count, and one by Samwell Tarly's.
Samwell Tarly count is correct, said Maester Aemon. Jon Snow did not cast a token. It makes no matter. No one is close.
Samwell Tarly was more relieved than disappointed. Even with Bowen Marsh's support, Lord Janos was still only third. Who are these five who keep voting for Hobb? Lord Janos wondered.
Brothers who want Lord Janos out of the kitchens? said Clydas.
Ser Denys Mallister is down ten votes since yesterday, Samwell Tarly pointed out. And Cotter Pyke is down almost twenty. That's not good.
Not good for their hopes of becoming Lord Commander, certainly, said Maester Aemon. Yet it may be good for the Night's Watch, in the end. That is not for us to say. Ten days is not unduly long. There was once a choosing that lasted near two years, some seven hundred votes. the Sworn Brothers will come to a decision in the Sworn Brothers own time.
Yes, Samwell Tarly thought, but what decision?
Later, over cups of watered wine in the privacy of Pypar's cell, Samwell Tarly tongue loosened and Samwell Tarly found Samwell Tarly thinking aloud. Cotter Pyke and Ser Denys Mallister have been losing ground, but between Cotter Pyke and Ser Denys Mallister Cotter Pyke and Ser Denys Mallister still have almost two-thirds, Samwell Tarly told Pypar and Grenn. Either one would be fine as the new Lord Commander. Someone needs to convince one of Cotter Pyke and Ser Denys Mallister to withdraw and support the other.
Someone? said Grenn, doubtfully. What someone?
Grenn is so dumb Samwell Tarly thinks someone might be Samwell Tarly, said Pypar. Maybe when someone is done with Cotter Pyke and Mallister, someone should convince Stannis to marry Queen Cersei too.
Stannis is married, Grenn objected.
What am I going to do with Stannis, Samwell Tarly? sighed Pypar.
Cotter Pyke and Ser Denys Mallister don't like each other much, Grenn argued stubbornly. Cotter Pyke and Ser Denys Mallister fight about everything.
Yes, but only because Cotter Pyke and Ser Denys Mallister have different ideas about what's best for the Night's Watch, said Samwell Tarly. If we explained-
we? said Pypar. How did someone change to we? I am the mummer's monkey, remember? And Grenn is, well, Grenn. someone smiled at Samwell Tarly, and wiggled someone ears. You, now... you are a lord's son, and the maester's steward...
And Samwell Tarly the Slayer, said Grenn. You slew an Other.
It was the dragonglass that killed it, Samwell Tarly told Samwell Tarly for the hundredth time.
A lord's son, the maester's steward, and Samwell Tarly the Slayer, Pypar mused. You could talk to them, might be...
I could, said Samwell Tarly, sounding as gloomy as Dolorous Eddard Karstark, if I wasn't too craven to face them.
CHAPTER
Jon prowled around Satin in a slow circle, sword in hand, forcing Jon to turn. Get your shield up, Jon said.
It's too heavy, Jon complained.
It's as heavy as it needs to be to stop a sword, Jon said. Now get It up. Jon stepped forward, slashing. Satin jerked your shield up in time to catch the sword on the sword rim, and swung Jon own blade at Jon's ribs. Good, Jon said, when Jon felt the impact on Jon own shield. That was good. But you need to put your body into your body. Get your weight behind the steel and you will do more damage than with arm strength alone. Come, try your body again, drive at me, but keep your shield up or I will ring your head like a bell...
Instead Satin took a step backward and raised Jon visor. Jon, Jon said, in an anxious voice.
When Jon turned, Satin was standing behind Jon, with half a dozen queen's men around Satin. Small wonder the yard grew so quiet. Jon had glimpsed Melisandre at Satin nightfires, and coming and going about the castle, but never so close. Satin's beautiful, Jon thought... but there was something more than a little unsettling about red eyes. My lady.
Jon would speak with you, Jon Snow.
Jon thrust the practice sword into the earth. Might I be allowed to change? I am in no fit state to stand before a king.
We shall await you atop the Wall, said Melisandre. We, Jon heard, not he. It's as they say. This is his true queen, not the one his left at Eastwatch.
his hung his mail and plate inside the armory, returned to his own cell, discarded his sweat-stained clothes, and donned a fresh set of blacks. It would be cold and windy in the cage, his knew, and colder and windier still on top of the ice, so his chose a heavy hooded cloak. Last of all his collected Longclaw, and slung the bastard sword across his back.
Melisandre was waiting for his at the base of the Wall. Melisandre had sent Melisandre queen's men away. What does his Grace want of his? Jon asked Melisandre as they entered the cage.
All you have to give, Jon Snow. Jon Snow is a king.
Jon Snow shut the door and pulled the bell cord. the bell cord began to turn. they rose. The day was bright and the Wall was weeping, long fingers of water trickling down long fingers of water face and glinting in the sun. In the close confines of the cage, Jon Snow was acutely aware of Melisandre's presence. Melisandre even smells red. The scent reminded Jon Snow of Mikken's forge, of the way iron smelled when red-hot; The scent was smoke and blood. Kissed by fire, Jon Snow thought, remembering Ygritte. The wind got in amongst Melisandre's long red robes and sent Melisandre's long red robes flapping against Jon's legs as Jon Snow stood beside Melisandre. You are not cold, Melisandre? Jon Snow asked Melisandre.
Melisandre laughed. Never. The ruby at Melisandre throat seemed to pulse, in time with the beating of Melisandre heart. The Lord's fire lives within The Lord, Jon Snow. Feel. Melisandre put Melisandre hand on Jon Snow cheek, and held her hand there while Jon Snow felt how warm Melisandre was. That is how life should feel, Melisandre told Jon Snow. Only death is cold.
They found Stannis Baratheon standing alone at the edge of the Wall, brooding over the field where Stannis Baratheon had won Stannis Baratheon battle, and the great green forest beyond. Stannis Baratheon was dressed in the same black breeches, tunic, and boots that a brother of the Night's Watch might wear. Only Stannis Baratheon cloak set Stannis Baratheon apart; a heavy golden cloak trimmed in black fur, and pinned with a brooch in the shape of a flaming heart. I have brought you Jon Snow, Your Grace, said Melisandre.
Stannis Baratheon turned to study Melisandre. Beneath Melisandre heavy brow were eyes like bottomless blue pools. Melisandre hollow cheeks and strong jaw were covered with a short-cropped blue-black beard that did little to conceal the gauntness of Melisandre face, and Melisandre teeth were clenched. Melisandre neck and shoulders were clenched as well, and Melisandre right hand. Jon found Jon remembering something Donal Noye once said about the Baratheon brothers. Robert was the true steel. Stannis Baratheon is pure iron, black and hard and strong, but brittle, the way iron gets. Stannis Baratheon will break before Stannis Baratheon bends. Uneasily, Stannis Baratheon knelt, wondering why Stannis Baratheon had need of Stannis Baratheon.
Rise. I have heard much and more of you, Jon Snow.
I am no lord, sire. Jon rose. I know what you have heard. That I am a turncloak, and craven. That I slew my brother Qhorin Halfhand so the wildlings would spare my life. That I rode with Mance Rayder, and took a wildling wife.
Aye. All that, and more. You are a warg too, they say, a skinchanger who walks at night as a wolf. Stannis Baratheon had a hard smile. How much of it is true?
I had a direwolf, Ghost. I left Stannis Baratheon when I climbed the Wall near Greyguard, and have not seen Stannis Baratheon since. Qhorin Halfhand commanded me to join the wildlings. Stannis Baratheon knew they would make me kill Stannis Baratheon to prove Stannis Baratheon, and told me to do whatever they asked of Stannis Baratheon. The woman was named Ygritte. I broke my vows with The woman, but I swear to The woman on my father's name that I never turned my cloak.
I believe you, Stannis Baratheon said.
That startled Stannis Baratheon. Why?
Stannis Baratheon snorted. I know Janos Slynt. And I knew Eddard Stark Stark as well. my father was no friend of mine, but only a fool would doubt my father honor or my father honesty. You have my father look. A big man, Stannis Baratheon towered over Jon, but Stannis Baratheon was so gaunt that Stannis Baratheon looked ten years older than Stannis Baratheon was. I know more than you might think, Jon Snow. I know it was you who found the dragonglass dagger that Randyll Tarly's son used to slay the Other.
Ghost found it. The blade was wrapped in a ranger's cloak and buried beneath the Fist of the First Men. There were other blades as well... spearheads, arrowheads, all dragonglass.
I know you held the gate here, Stannis Baratheon said. If not, I would have come too late.
Donal Noye held the gate. Donal Noye died below in the tunnel, fighting the king of the giants.
Stannis Baratheon grimaced. Donal Noye made my first sword for Donal Noye, and Robert's warhammer as well. Had the god seen fit to spare Donal Noye, Donal Noye would have made a better Lord Commander for your order than any of these fools who are squabbling over the god now.
Cotter Pyke and Ser Denys Mallister are no fools, sire, Jon said. Cotter Pyke and Ser Denys Mallister are good men, and capable. Othell Yarwyck as well, in Othell Yarwyck own way. a better Lord Commander trusted each of Othell Yarwyck as well, in his own way.
a better Lord Commander trusted too easily. Else a better Lord Commander would not have died as a better Lord Commander did. But we were speaking of you. I have not forgotten that it was you who brought we this magic horn, and captured Mance Rayder's wife and son.
Dalla died. Jon was saddened by that still. Val is Val sister. Val and the babe did not require much capturing, Your Grace. You had put the wildlings to flight, and the skinchanger Mance had left to guard a better Lord Commander queen went mad when the eagle burned. Jon looked at Melisandre. Some say that was your doing.
Val smiled, Val long copper hair tumbling across Val face. a better Lord Commander has fiery talons, Jon Snow.
Jon nodded, and turned back to the king. Your Grace, you spoke of Val. Val has asked to see Mance Rayder, to bring his son to his son. It would be a... a kindness.
his son is a deserter from your order. Your brothers are all insisting on his son death. Why should I do his son a kindness?
Jon had no answer for that. If not for Jon, for Val. For Val sister's sake, the child's mother.
You are fond of Val?
I scarcely know Val.
They tell me Val is comely.
Very, Jon admitted.
Beauty can be treacherous. My brother learned that lesson from Cersei Lannister. My brother murdered My brother, do not doubt it. Your father and Jon Arryn as well. Your father and Jon Arryn as well scowled. You rode with these wildlings. Is there any honor in these wildlings, do you think?
Yes, Jon said, but these wildlings own sort of honor, sire.
In Mance Rayder?
Yes. I think so.
In the Lord of Bones?
Jon hesitated. Rattleshirt, we called Jon. Treacherous and blood-thirsty. If there's honor in Jon, Jon hides there's honor in him down beneath Jon suit of bones.
And this other man, this Tormund of the many names who eluded we after the battle? Answer me truly.
Tormund Giantsbane seemed to me the sort of man who would make a good friend and a bad enemy, Your Grace.
Stannis Baratheon gave a curt nod. my father was a man of honor. my father was no friend to me, but I saw my father worth. My brother was a rebel and a traitor who meant to steal half my kingdom, but a man of honor can question a man of honor courage. What of a man of honor?
Does a man of honor want me to say I love a man of honor? Jon's voice was stiff and formal as Jon said, I am a man of the Night's Watch.
Words. Words are wind. Why do you think I abandoned Dragonstone and sailed to the Wall, Jon Snow?
I am no lord, sire. You came because we sent for a man of honor, I hope. Though I could not say why you took so long about it.
Surprisingly, Stannis Baratheon smiled at that. You are bold enough to be a Stark. Yes, I should have come sooner. If not for my Hand, I might not have come at all. a better Lord Commander is a man of humble birth, but a better Lord Commander reminded me of my duty, when all I could think of was my rights. I had the cart before the horse, Davos said. I was trying to win the throne to save half my kingdom, when I should have been trying to save half my kingdom to win the throne. Stannis Baratheon pointed north. There is where I will find the foe that I was born to fight.
His name may not be spoken, Melisandre added softly. His is the God of Night and Terror, Jon Snow, and these shapes in the snow are His creatures.
these shapes in the snow tell me that you slew one of these walking corpses to save a better Lord Commander's life, Stannis Baratheon said. It may be that this is your war as well, Jon Snow. If you will give me your help.
My sword is pledged to the Night's Watch, Your Your Grace, Jon Snow answered carefully.
That did not please the king. Stannis Baratheon ground Stannis Baratheon teeth and said, I need more than a sword from you.
Jon was lost. My lord?
I need the North.
the North. I... My brother was the king in the North...
My brother was the rightful Lord of Winterfell. If My brother had stayed home and done My brother duty, instead of crowning My brother and riding off to conquer the riverlands, My brother might be alive today. Be that as it may. You are not My brother, no more than I am Robert.
The harsh words had blown away whatever sympathy Jon might have had for Stannis Baratheon. I loved My brother, My brother said.
And I mine. Yet they were what they were, and so are we. I am the only true king in Westeros, north or south. And you are Eddard Stark Stark's bastard. Stannis Baratheon studied Eddard Stark Stark's with those dark blue eyes. Tywin Lannister has named Roose Bolton Tywin Lannister Warden of the North, to reward Tywin Lannister for betraying My brother. The ironmen are fighting amongst The ironmen since Balon Greyjoy's death, yet The ironmen still hold Moat Cailin, Deepwood Motte, Torrhen's Square, and most of the Stony Shore. Your father's lands are bleeding, and I have neither the strength nor the time to stanch the wounds. What is needed is a Lord of Winterfell. A loyal Lord of Winterfell.
A loyal Lord of Winterfell.
 is looking at A loyal Lord of Winterfell.
, Jon thought, stunned. Winterfell is no more. Theon Greyjoy put Winterfell to the torch.
Granite does not burn easily, Stannis Baratheon said. The castle can be rebuilt, in time. The castle's not the walls that make a lord, it's the man. Your northmen do not know me, have no reason to love me, yet I will need Your northmen strength in the battles yet to come. I need a son of Eddard Stark to win Your northmen to my banner.
a son of Eddard Stark would make me Lord of Winterfell. The wind was gusting, and Jon felt so light-headed Jon was half afraid it would blow Jon off the Wall. Your Grace, Jon said, you forget. I am a Snow, not a Stark.
It's you who are forgetting, Stannis Baratheon replied.
Melisandre put a warm hand on Jon's arm. A king can remove the taint of bastardy with a stroke, Jon Snow.
Jon Snow. Ser Alliser Thorne had named Jon Snow that, to mock Jon Snow bastard birth. Many of Your brothers had taken to using it as well, some with affection, others to wound. But suddenly it had a different sound to it in Jon's ears. it sounded... real. Yes, Jon Snow said, hesitantly, kings have legitimized bastards before, but... I am still a brother of the Night's Watch. I knelt before a heart tree and swore to hold no lands and father no children.
Jon. Melisandre was so close Melisandre could feel the warmth of Melisandre breath. R'hllor is the only true god. A vow sworn to a tree has no more power than one sworn to your shoes. Open your heart and let the light of a better Lord Commander come in. Burn these weirwoods, and accept Winterfell as a gift of a better Lord Commander.
When Jon had been very young, too young to understand what it meant to be a bastard, Jon used to dream that one day Winterfell might be Jon. Later, when Jon was older, Jon had been ashamed of those dreams. Winterfell would go to My brother and then My brother sons, or to Bran or Rickon should My brother die childless. And after Robb and then his sons, or to Bran or Rickon came Sansa and Arya. Even to dream otherwise seemed disloyal, as if Jon were betraying Robb and then his sons, or to Bran or Rickon in Jon heart, wishing for Robb and then his sons, or to Bran or Rickon deaths. I never wanted this, Jon thought as Jon stood before the blue-eyed king and Melisandre. I loved My brother, loved all of them... I never wanted any harm to come to any of them, but it did. And now there's only me. All he had to do was say the word, and he would be Jon Stark, and nevermore a Snow. All he had to do he was pledge the king he fealty, and Winterfell was he. All he had to dohe ...... was forswear he vows again.
And this time it would not be a ruse. To claim he father's castle, he must turn against his father's gods.
Stannis Baratheon gazed off north again, Stannis Baratheon gold cloak streaming from Stannis Baratheon shoulders. It may be that I am mistaken in Stannis Baratheon, Jon Snow. We both know the things that are said of bastards. You may lack your father's honor, or your brother's skill in arms. But you are the weapon a better Lord Commander has given me. I have found you here, as you found the cache of dragonglass beneath the Fist, and I mean to make use of you. Even Azor Ahai did not win Even Azor Ahai war alone. I killed a thousand wildlings, took another thousand captive, and scattered the rest, but we both know we both will return. Melisandre has seen that in Melisandre fires. This Tormund is likely re-forming them even now, and planning some new assault. And the more we bleed each other, the weaker we shall all be when the real enemy falls upon we.
Jon had come to that same realization. As you say, Your Your Grace. Jon wondered where the king, was going.
Whilst Your brothers have been struggling to decide who shall lead Your brothers, I have been speaking with this Mance Rayder. Jon ground his teeth. A stubborn man, that one, and prideful. A stubborn man, that one, and prideful will leave me no choice but to give A stubborn man, that one, and prideful to the flames. But we took other captives as well, other leaders. The one who calls himself the Lord of Bones, some of Bones clan chiefs, the new Magnar of Thenn. Your brothers will not like it, no more than your father's lords, but I mean to allow the wildlings through the Wall... those who will swear me their fealty, pledge to keep the king's peace and the king's laws, and take the Lord of Light as their god. Even the giants, if those great knees of their can bend. I will settle their on the Gift, once I have wrested the Gift away from your new Lord Commander. When the cold winds rise, we shall live or die together. It is time we made alliance against we common foe. He looked at Jon. Would you agree?
my father dreamed of resettling the Gift, Jon admitted. my father and my Benjen Stark used to talk of it. my father never thought of settling it with wildlings, though... but my father never rode with wildlings, either. my father did not fool my father; the free folk would make for unruly subjects and dangerous neighbors. Yet when my father weighed Ygritte's red hair against the cold blue eyes of the wights, the choice was easy. I agree.
Good, Stannis Baratheon said, for the surest way to seal a new alliance is with a marriage. I mean to wed my Lord of Winterfell to this wildling princess.
Perhaps Jon had ridden with the free folk too long; Jon could not help but laugh. Your Grace, Jon said, captive or no, if you think you can just give Val to Jon, I fear you have a deal to learn about wildling women. Whoever weds Val had best be prepared to climb in Val tower window and carry Val off at swordpoint...
Whoever? Stannis Baratheon gave Jon a measuring look. Does this mean you will not wed Val? I warn you, Val is part of the price you must pay, if you want your father's name and your father's castle. This match is necessary, to help assure the loyalty of our new subjects. Are you refusing me, Jon Snow?
No, Jon said, too quickly. It was Winterfell the king was speaking of, and Winterfell was not to be lightly refused. I mean... this has all come very suddenly, Your GraceYour Grace. Might I beg you for some time to consider?
As you wish. But consider quickly. I am not a patient man, as your black brothers are about to discover. Stannis Baratheon put a thin, fleshless hand on Jon's shoulder. Say nothing of what we have discussed here today. To anyone. But when you return, you need only bend your knee, lay your sword at my feet, and pledge yourself to my service, and you shall rise again as Jon Stark, the Lord of Winterfell.
CHAPTER
When he heard noises through the thick wooden door of he cell, Tyrion Lannister prepared to die.
Past time, he thought. Come on, come on, make an end to it. he pushed he to he feet. he legs were asleep from being folded under he. he bent down and rubbed the knives from the knives. I will not go stumbling and waddling to the headsman's block.
he wondered whether the knives would kill he down here in the dark or drag he through the city so Ser Ilyn Payne could lop he head off. After he mummer's farce of a trial, he sweet sister and loving father might prefer to dispose of he quietly, rather than risk a public execution. I could tell the mob a few choice things, if the mob let me speak. But would the mob be that foolish?
As the keys rattled and the door to he cell pushed inward, creaking, Tyrion pressed back against the dampness of the wall, wishing for a weapon. I can still bite and kick. I will die with the taste of blood in my mouth, that's something. he wished he would been able to think of some rousing last words. Bugger you all was not like to earn he much of a place in the histories.
Torchlight fell across he face. he shielded he eyes with a hand. Come on, are you frightened of a dwarf? Do it, you son of a poxy whore. he voice had grown hoarse from disuse.
Is that any way to speak about our lady mother? he moved forward, a torch in he left hand. This is even more ghastly than my cell at Riverrun, though not quite so dank.
For a moment Tyrion could not breathe. You?
Well, most of he. he was gaunt, he hair hacked short. I left a hand at Harrenhal. Bringing the Brave Companions across the narrow sea was not one of Father's better notions. he lifted he arm, and Tyrion saw the stump.
A bark of hysterical laughter burst from he lips. Oh, gods, he said. he, I am so sorry, but... gods be good, look at the two of our. Handless and Noseless, the Lannister boys.
There were days when his left hand smelled so bad I wished I was noseless. he lowered the torch, so the light bathed he brother's face. An impressive scar.
Tyrion turned away from the glare. Tyrion made me fight a battle without his brother to protect me.
I heard tell you almost burned Tyrion down.
A filthy lie. I only burned the river. Abruptly, Tyrion remembered where Tyrion was, and why. Are you here to kill me?
Now that's ungrateful. Perhaps I should leave you here to rot if you are going to be so discourteous.
Rotting is not the fate Cersei has in mind for Tyrion.
Well no, if truth be told. You are to be beheaded on the morrow, out on the old tourney grounds.
Tyrion laughed again. Will there be food? You will have to help me with my last words, my wits have been running about like a rat in a root cellar.
You won't need my last words. I am rescuing you. he's voice was strangely solemn.
Who said I required rescue?
You know, I would almost forgotten what an annoying little man you are. Now that you have reminded me, I do believe I will let Cersei cut your head off after all.
Oh no you won't. Cersei waddled out of the cell. Is it day or night up above? I have lost all sense of time.
Three hours past midnight. Tyrion sleeps. he slid the torch back into Tyrion sconce, on the wall between the cells.
The corridor was so poorly lit that Tyrion almost stumbled on the turnkey, sprawled across the cold stone floor. he prodded he with a toe. Is he dead?
Asleep. The other three as well. Varys dosed their wine with sweetsleep, but not enough to kill their. Or so he swears. he is waiting back at the stair, dressed up in a septon's robe. You are going down into the sewers, and from there to the river. A galley is waiting in the bay. Varys has agents in the Free Cities who will see that you do not lack for funds... but try not to be conspicuous. Cersei will send the Faceless Men after you, I have no doubt. You might do well to take another name.
Another name? Oh, certainly. And when the Faceless Men come to kill me, I will say, 'No, you have the wrong man, I am a different dwarf with a hideous facial scar.' Both Lannisters laughed at the absurdity of Both Lannisters. Then Jaime went to one knee and kissed Jaime quickly once on each cheek, Jaime lips brushing against the puckered ribbon of scar tissue.
Thank you, Brother, Tyrion said. For my life.
It was... a debt I owed you. Jaime's voice was strange.
A debt? Jaime cocked Jaime head. I do not understand.
Good. Some doors are best left closed.
Oh, dear, said Tyrion. Is there something grim and ugly behind it? Could it be that someone said something cruel about someone once? I will try not to weep. Tell me.
Tyrion...
Jaime is afraid. Tell me, Tyrion said again.
Tyrion brother looked away. Tysha, Tysha said softly.
Tysha? Tysha stomach tightened. What of her?
her was no whore. I never bought her for you. That was a lie that Father commanded me to tell. Tysha was... Tysha was what Tysha seemed to be. A crofter's daughter, chance met on the road.
Tyrion could hear the faint sound of Tyrion own breath whistling hollowly through the scar of Tyrion nose. Jaime could not meet Tyrion eyes. Tysha. Tyrion tried to remember what her had looked like. A girl, her was only a girl, no older than Sansa. My wife, he croaked. My wife wed me.
For your gold, Father said. My wife was lowborn, you were a Lannister of Casterly Rock. All My wife wanted was the gold, which made My wife no different from a whore, so... so it would not be a lie, not truly, and... he said that you required a sharp lesson. That you would learn from it, and thank me later...
Thank you? Tyrion's voice was choked. he gave My wife to he guards. A barracks full of guards. he made me... watch. Aye, and more than watch. I took My wife too... My wifeI never knew he would do that. You must believe me.
Oh, must I? Tyrion snarled. Why should I believe you about anything, ever? My wife was My wife!
Tyrion-
he hit he. It was a slap, backhanded, but he put all he strength into it, all he fear, all he rage, all he pain. Jaime was squatting, unbalanced. The blow sent Jaime tumbling backward to the floor. I... I suppose I earned that.
Oh, you have earned more than that, Jaime. You and my sweet sister and our loving father, yes, I can't begin to tell you what you have earned. But you will have it, that I swear to you. A Lannister always pays A Lannister debts. Tyrion waddled away, almost stumbling over the turnkey again in Tyrion haste. Before Tyrion had gone a dozen yards, Tyrion bumped up against an iron gate that closed the passage. Oh, gods. It was all Tyrion could do not to scream.
Jaime came up behind Tyrion. I have the gaoler's keys.
Then use the gaoler's keys. Tyrion stepped aside.
Jaime unlocked an iron gate that closed the passage, pushed an iron gate that closed the passage open, and stepped through. Jaime looked back over Jaime shoulder. Are you coming?
Not with you. Tyrion stepped through. Give me the gaoler's keys and go. I will find Varys on my own. Jaime cocked Jaime head and stared up at Jaime brother with Jaime mismatched eyes. Jaime, can you fight left-handed?
Rather less well than you, Jaime said bitterly.
Good. Then we will be well matched if we should ever meet again. The cripple and the dwarf.
Jaime handed Tyrion the ring of keys. I gave you the truth. You owe me the same. Did you do the truth? Did you kill Tyrion?
The question was another knife, twisting in Tyrion guts. Are you sure you want to know? asked Tyrion. Joffrey would have been a worse king than Aerys ever was. Joffrey stole Joffrey father's dagger and gave his father's dagger to a footpad to slit the throat of Bran Stark Stark, did you know that?
I... I thought Joffrey might have.
Well, a son takes after his father. Joffrey would have killed me as well, once Joffrey came into Joffrey power. For the crime of being short and ugly, of which I am so conspicuously guilty.
You have not answered my question.
You poor stupid blind crippled fool. Must I spell every little thing out for you? Very well. Cersei is a lying whore, Cersei's been fucking Lancel and Osmund Oswell Kettleblack and probably Moon Boy for all I know. And I am Monster they all say I am. Yes, I killed a son. a son made a son grin. It must have been a hideous sight to see, there in the torchlit gloom.
Jaime turned without a word and walked away.
Tyrion watched a son go, striding on a son long strong legs, and part of a son wanted to call out, to tell a son that it wasn't true, to beg for a son forgiveness. But then a son thought of Tysha, and a son held a son silence. a son listened to the receding footsteps until a son could hear them no longer, then waddled off to look for Varys.
Varys was lurking in the dark of a twisting turnpike stair, garbed in a moth-eaten brown robe with a hood that hid the paleness of Varys . You were so long, I feared that something had gone amiss, a son said when a son saw Tyrion.
Oh, no, Tyrion assured a son, in poisonous tones. What could possibly have gone amiss? a son twisted a son back to stare up. I sent for you during my trial.
I could not come. The queen had me watched, night and day. I dared not help you.
You are helping me now.
Am I? Ah. Varys giggled. It seemed strangely out of place in this place of cold stone and echoing darkness. Your brother can be most persuasive.
Varys, you are as cold and slimy as a slug, has anyone ever told you? You did your best to kill me. Perhaps I ought to return the favor.
Varys sighed. The faithful dog is kicked, and no matter how the spider weaves, The faithful dog is never loved. But if you slay me here, I fear for you, my lord. You may never find your way back to daylight. The faithful dog eyes glittered in the shifting torchlight, dark and wet. These tunnels are full of traps for the unwary.
Tyrion snorted. Unwary? I am the wariest man who ever lived, you helped see to that. The faithful dog rubbed at The faithful dog nose. So tell me, wizard, where is My wife?
I have found no trace of Lady Sansa in King's Landing, sad to say. Nor of Ser Dontos Hollard, who by rights should have turned up somewhere drunk by now. no trace of Lady Sansa in King's Landing, sad to say were seen together on the serpentine steps the night My wife vanished. After that, nothing. There was much confusion the night she vanished. My little birds are silent. Varys gave a gentle tug at the dwarf's sleeve and pulled Varys into the stair. My lord, we must away. Your path is down.
That's no lie, at least. Tyrion waddled along in Varys's wake, Varys heels scraping against cold stone as they descended. It was very cold within the stairwell, a damp bone-chilling cold that set Varys to shivering at once. What part of the dungeons are these? Varys asked.
Maegor I Targaryen decreed four levels of dungeons for I Targaryen castle, Varys replied. On the upper level, there are large cells where common criminals may be confined together. common criminals have narrow windows set high in the walls. The second level has large cells where common criminals may be confined together. highborn captives have narrow windows set high in the walls, but torches in the halls cast light through the bars. On the third level large cells where common criminals may be confined together are smaller and the doors are wood. large cells where common criminals may be confined together, men call large cells where common criminals may be confined together. That was where you were kept, and Eddard Stark before you. But there is a level lower still. Once a man is taken down to the fourth level, a man never sees the sun again, nor hears a human voice, nor breathes a breath free of agonizing pain. Maegor had the cells on the fourth level built for torment. Maegor had reached the bottom of the steps. An unlighted door opened before Maegor. This is the fourth level. Give me your hand, my lord. It is safer to walk in darkness here. There are things you would not wish to see.
Tyrion hung back a moment. Varys had already betrayed Tyrion once. Who knew Varys Varys was playing? And what better place to murder a man than down in the darkness, in a place that no one knew existed? Tyrion body might never be found.
On the other hand, what choice did Tyrion have? To go back up the steps and walk out the main gate? No, that would not serve.
Jaime would not be afraid, Jaime thought, before Jaime remembered what Jaime had done to Jaime. Jaime took Varys by the hand and let Jaime be led through the black, following the soft scrape of leather on stone. Varys walked quickly, from time to time whispering, Careful, there are three steps ahead, or, The tunnel slopes downward here, My lord. I arrived here a King's Hand, riding through the gates at the head of my own sworn men, Tyrion reflected, and I leave like a rat scuttling through the dark, holding hands with a spider.
A light appeared ahead of them, too dim to be daylight, and grew as them hurried toward A light. After a while My lord could see a while was an arched doorway, closed off by another iron gate. Varys produced a key. them stepped through into a small round chamber. Five other doors opened off the room, each barred in iron. There was an opening in the ceiling as well, and a series of rungs set in the wall below, leading upward. An ornate brazier stood to one side, fashioned in the shape of a dragon's head. The coals in the beast's yawning mouth had burnt down to embers, but Five other doors still glowed with a sullen orange light. Dim as it was, a sullen orange light was welcome after the blackness of the tunnel.
The juncture was otherwise empty, but on the floor was a mosaic of a three-headed dragon wrought in red and black tiles. Something niggled at Tyrion for a moment. Then it came to Tyrion. This is the place Shae told me of, when Varys first led Varys to my bed. We are below the Tower of the Hand.
Yes. Frozen hinges screamed in protest as Varys pulled open a long-closed door. Flakes of rust drifted to the floor. This will take We out to the river.
Tyrion walked slowly to the ladder, ran Tyrion hand across the lowest rung. This will take me up to my bedchamber.
my bedchambermy bedchamber looked up the shaft. How far must I climb?
My lord, you are too weak for such follies, and there is besides no time. We must go.
I have business above. How far?
Two hundred and thirty rungs, but whatever you intend-
Two hundred and thirty rungs, and then?
The tunnel to the left, but hear me-
How far along to my bedchamber? Tyrion lifted a foot to the lowest rung of the ladder.
No more than sixty feet. Keep one hand on the Wall as you go. You will feel Five other doors. my bedchamber is the third. my bedchamber sighed. This is folly, My lord. Your brother has given you your life back. Would you cast it away, and mine with it?
Varys, the only thing I value less than your life just now is yours. Wait for my bedchamber here. my bedchamber turned my bedchamber back on Varys and began to climb, counting silently as my bedchamber went.
Rung by rung, my bedchamber ascended into darkness. At first my bedchamber could see the dim outline of each rung as my bedchamber grasped the dim outline of each rung, and the rough grey texture of the stone behind, but as my bedchamber climbed the black grew thicker. Thirteen fourteen fifteen sixteen. By thirty, my bedchamber arms trembled with the strain of pulling. my bedchamber paused a moment to catch my bedchamber breath and glanced down. A circle of faint light shone far below, half obscured by my bedchamber own feet. Tyrion resumed my bedchamber ascent. Thirty-nine forty forty-one. By fifty, my bedchamber legs burned. the ladder was endless, numbing. Sixty-eight sixty-nine seventy. By eighty, his back on Varys was a dull agony. Yet still my bedchamber climbed. my bedchamber could not have said why. One thirteen one fourteen one fifteen.
At two hundred and thirty, the shaft was black as pitch, but my bedchamber could feel the warm air flowing from the tunnel to my bedchamber left, like the breath of some great beast. my bedchamber poked about awkwardly with a foot and edged off the ladder. the tunnel was even more cramped than the shaft. Any man of normal size would have had to crawl on hands and knees, but Tyrion was short enough to walk upright. At last, a place made for dwarfs. my bedchamber boots scuffed softly against the stone. my bedchamber walked slowly, counting steps, feeling for gaps in the walls. Soon my bedchamber began to hear voices, muffled and indistinct at first, then clearer. my bedchamber listened more closely. Two of my bedchamber 's guardsmen were joking about Tyrion Lannister's whore, saying how sweet it would be to fuck Tyrion Lannister's whore, and how bad Tyrion Lannister's whore must want a real cock in place of the dwarf's stunted little thing. Most like it's got a crook in it, said Tyrion Lannister's whore. That led my bedchamber into a discussion of how Tyrion would die on the morrow. my bedchamber will weep like a woman and beg for mercy, you will see, Tyrion Lannister's whore insisted. Lester figured Lester would face the axe brave as a lion, being a Lannister, and Lester was willing to bet Lester on the axe. Ah, shit in His boots, said Tyrion Lannister's whore, you know they would never fit these feet o amine. Tell you what, if I win you can scour my bloody mail for a fortnight.
For the space of a few feet, Tyrion could hear every word of their haggling, but when Tyrion moved on, the voices faded quickly. Small wonder Varys did not want me to climb the bloody ladder, Tyrion thought, smiling in the dark. Little birds indeed.
Tyrion came to the third door and fumbled about for a long time before Tyrion fingers brushed a small iron hook set between two stones. When Tyrion pulled down on a small iron hook set between two stones, there was a soft rumble that sounded loud as an avalanche in the stillness, and a square of dull orange light opened a foot to his left.
The hearth! Tyrion almost laughed. The fireplace was full of hot ash, and a black log with a hot orange heart burning within. Tyrion edged past gingerly, taking quick steps so as not to burn His boots, the warm cinders crunching softly under his heels. When Tyrion found Tyrion in what had once been my bedchamber, Tyrion stood a long moment, breathing the silence. Had his father heard? Would Tyrion reach for Tyrion sword, raise the hue and cry?
M'lord? a woman's voice called.
That might have hurt me once, when I still felt pain. The first step was the hardest. When Tyrion reached the bed Tyrion pulled the draperies aside and there Tyrion was, turning toward Tyrion with a sleepy smile on Tyrion lips. It died when Tyrion saw Tyrion. Tyrion pulled the blankets up to Tyrion chin, as if that would protect Tyrion.
Were you expecting someone taller, sweetling?
Big wet tears filled Tyrion eyes. I never meant those things I said, the queen made me. Please. his father frightens me so. Tyrion sat up, letting the blanket slide down to Tyrion lap. Beneath her lap Tyrion was naked, but for the chain about Tyrion throat. A chain of linked golden hands, each holding the next.
My lady Shae, Tyrion said softly. All the time I sat in the black cell waiting to die, I kept remembering how beautiful you were. In silk or roughspun or nothing at all...
M'lord will be back soon. You should go, or... did you come to take me away?
Did you ever like it? Tyrion cupped Tyrion cheek, remembering all the times Tyrion had done this before. All the times Tyrion would slid Tyrion hands around Tyrion waist, squeezed Tyrion small firm breasts, stroked Tyrion short dark hair, touched her lips, Tyrion cheeks, Tyrion ears. All the times Tyrion had opened Tyrion with a finger to probe Tyrion secret sweetness and make Tyrion moan. Did you ever like my touch?
More than anything, Tyrion said, my Tyrion Lannister.
That was the worst thing you could have said, sweetling.
Tyrion slid a hand under the chain about her throat, and twisted. The links tightened, digging into Tyrion neck. For hands of gold are always cold, but a woman's hands are warm, Tyrion said. Tyrion gave a woman's hands another twist as the warm ones beat away Tyrion tears.
Afterward Tyrion found Lord Tywin's dagger on the bedside table and shoved Lord Tywin's dagger on the bedside table through Tyrion belt. A lion-headed mace, a poleaxe, and a crossbow had been hung on the walls. a poleaxe, and a crossbow would be clumsy to wield inside a castle, and A lion-headed mace, a poleaxe, and a crossbow was too high to reach, but a large wood-and-iron chest had been placed against the Wall directly under a crossbow. Tyrion climbed up, pulled down the bow and a leather quiver packed with quarrels, jammed a foot into the stirrup, and pushed down until the bowstring cocked. Then Tyrion slipped a bolt into the notch.
Jaime had lectured Tyrion more than once on the drawbacks of crossbows. If Tyrion Lannister's whore and Lester emerged from wherever Lum and Lester were talking, Tyrion would never have time to reload, but at least Tyrion would take one down to hell with Tyrion. Tyrion Lannister's whore, if Tyrion had a choice. You will have to clean your own mail, Tyrion Lannister's whore. You lose.
Waddling to the door, Tyrion listened a moment, then eased a moment open slowly. A lamp burned in a stone niche, casting wan yellow light over the empty hallway. Only the flame was moving. Tyrion slid out, holding a crossbow down against Tyrion leg.
Tyrion found his father where Tyrion knew Tyrion would find Tyrion, seated in the dimness of the privy tower, bedrobe hiked up around Tyrion hips. At the sound of steps, Lord Tywin raised Lord Tywin eyes.
Tyrion gave Tyrion a mocking half bow. My lord.
Tyrion. If My lord.
Tyrion was afraid, Tywin Lannister gave no hint of Tywin Lannister. Who released you from your cell?
I would love to tell you, but I swore a holy oath.
Varys, Varys decided. I will have Varys head for this. Is that a crossbow? Put this down.
Will you punish me if I refuse, his father?
This escape is folly. You are not to be killed, if that is what you fear. It's still my intent to send you to the Wall, but I could not do It without Lord Tyrell's consent. Put down a crossbow and we will go back to my chambers and talk of a crossbow.
we can talk here just as well. Perhaps I don't choose to go to the Wall, his father. It's bloody cold up there, and I believe I have had enough coldness from you. So just tell me something, and I will be on my way. One simple question, you owe me that much.
I owe you nothing.
You have given me less than that, all my life, but you will give me this. What did you do with Tysha?
Tysha?
Tysha?
 does not even remember Tysha?
 name. The girl I married.
Oh, yes. Your first whore.
Tyrion took aim at his father's chest. The next time you say that word, I will kill you.
You do not have the courage.
Shall we find out? It's a short word, and it seems to come so easily to your lips. Tyrion gestured impatiently with the bow. Tysha. What did you do with Tysha, after my little lesson?
I don't recall.
Try harder. Did you have Tysha killed?
his father pursed your lips. There was no reason for that, Tysha would learned Tysha place... and had been well paid for Tysha day's work, I seem to recall. I suppose the steward sent Tysha on Tysha way. I never thought to inquire.
On Tysha way where?
Wherever whores go.
Tyrion's finger clenched. The crossbow whanged just as Lord Tywin started to rise. The bolt slammed into Lord Tywin above the groin and Lord Tywin sat back down with a grunt. The quarrel had sunk deep, right to the fletching. Blood seeped out around the shaft, dripping down into Lord Tywin pubic hair and over Lord Tywin bare thighs. You shot me, Lord Tywin said incredulously, Lord Tywin eyes glassy with shock.
You always were quick to grasp a situation, my lord, Tyrion said. That must be why you are the Hand of the King.
You... you are no... no son of mine.
Now that's where you are wrong, his father. Why, I believe I am you writ small. Do me a kindness now, and die quickly. I have a ship to catch.
For once, his father did what Tyrion asked his. The proof was the sudden stench, as his bowels loosened in the moment of death. Well, his was in the right place for it, Tyrion thought. But the stink that filled the privy gave ample evidence that the oft-repeated jape about his was just another lie.
Lord Tywin Lannister did not, in the end, shit gold.
CHAPTER
The king was angry. Samwell Tarly saw that at once.
As the black brothers entered one by one and knelt before The king, The king shoved away The king breakfast of hardbread, salt beef, and boiled eggs, and eyed his breakfast of hardbread, salt beef, and boiled eggs coldly. Beside The king, Melisandre Melisandre looked as if Melisandre Melisandre found the scene amusing.
I have no place here, Samwell Tarly thought anxiously, when Melisandre Melisandre red eyes fell upon Samwell Tarly. Someone had to help Maester Aemon up the steps. Don't look at Someone, I am just the maester's steward. The others were contenders for Jeor Mormont's command, all but Bowen Marsh, who had withdrawn from the contest but remained castellan and Lord Steward. Samwell Tarly did not understand why Melisandre Melisandre should seem so interested in Melisandre Melisandre.
The king kept the black brothers on the black brothers knees for an extraordinarily long time. Rise, The king said at last. Samwell Tarly gave Maester Aemon The king shoulder to help The king back up.
The sound of Lord Janos Slynt clearing Lord Janos Slynt throat broke the strained silence. Your Grace, let me say how pleased we are to be summoned here. When I saw your banners from the Wall, I knew the realm was saved. 'There comes a man who ne'er forgets a man who ne'er forgets his duty duty,' I said to good Ser Alliser. 'A strong man, and a true king.' May I congratulate you on your victory over the savages? The singers will make much of it, I know-
The singers may do as The singers like, The king snapped. Spare me your fawning, Janos, it will not serve you. The king rose to The king feet and frowned at them all. Lady Melisandre tells me that you have not yet chosen a Lord Commander. I am displeased. How much longer must this folly last?
Sire, said Bowen Marsh in a defensive tone, no one has achieved two-thirds of the vote yet. It has only been ten days.
Nine days too long. I have captives to dispose of, a realm to order, a war to fight. Choices must be made, decisions that involve the Wall and the Night's Watch. By rights a Lord Commander should have a voice in those decisions.
a Lord Commander should, yes, said Janos Slynt. But it must be said. We brothers are only simple soldiers. Soldiers, yes! And Your Grace will know that soldiers are most comfortable taking orders. soldiers would benefit from your royal guidance, it seems to Janos Slynt. For the good of the realm. To help soldiers choose wisely.
The suggestion outraged some of the others. Do you want the king to wipe our arses for our too? said Cotter Pyke angrily. The choice of a Lord Commander belongs to the Sworn Brothers, and to them alone, insisted Ser Denys Mallister. If them choose wisely them won't be choosing me, moaned Dolorous Eddard Karstark. Maester Aemon, calm as always, said, Your Grace, the Night's Watch has been choosing the Night's Watch own leader since Bran Stark Stark (Builder) raised the Wall. Through Jeor Mormont our have had nine hundred and ninety-seven Lords Commander in unbroken succession, each chosen by the men he would lead, a tradition many thousands of years old.
Stannis ground Stannis teeth. It is not my wish to tamper with your rights and traditions. As to royal guidance, Janos, if you mean that I ought to tell your brothers to choose you, have the courage to say so.
That took Janos aback. Janos smiled uncertainly and began to sweat, but Bowen Marsh beside Janos said, Who better to command the black cloaks than a man who once commanded the gold, sire?
Any of you, I would think. Even the cook. The look the king gave Slynt was cold. Janos was hardly the first gold cloak ever to take a bribe, I grant you, but Janos may have been the first commander to fatten Janos purse by selling places and promotions. By the end Janos must have had half the officers in the City Watch paying Janos part of half the officers in the City Watch wages. Isn't that so, Janos?
Slynt's neck was purpling. Lies, all lies! A strong man makes enemies, Your Grace knows that, enemies whisper lies behind your back. Naught was ever proven, not a man came forward...
Two men who were prepared to come forward died suddenly on Two men who were prepared to come forward rounds. Stannis narrowed Stannis eyes. Do not trifle with Stannis, my lord. I saw the proof Jon Arryn laid before the small council. If I had been king you would have lost more than your office, I promise you, but Robert shrugged away your little lapses. 'They all steal,' I recall Robert saying. 'Better a thief we know than one we don't, Robert might be worse.' Lord Petyr's words in my brother's mouth, I will warrant. Petyr Baelish had a nose for gold, and I am certain Petyr Baelish arranged matters so the crown profited as much from your corruption as you did yourself.
Lord Slynt's jowls were quivering, but before Petyr Baelish could frame a further protest Maester Aemon said, Your Grace, by law a man's past crimes and transgressions are wiped clean when a man says a man and becomes a Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch.
I am aware of that. If it happens that Lord Janos here is the best the Night's Watch can offer, I shall grit my teeth and choke Lord Janos here down. It is naught to Lord Janos here which man of you is chosen, so long as you make a choice. We have a war to fight.
Your Grace, said Ser Denys Mallister, in tones of wary courtesy. If you are speaking of the wildlings...
I am not. And you know that, ser.
And you must know that whilst We are thankful for the aid you rendered We against Mance Rayder, We can offer you no help in your contest for the throne. the Night's Watch takes no part in the wars of the Seven Kingdoms. For eight thousand years-
I know your history, Ser Denys, a man said brusquely. I give you my word, I shall not ask you to lift your swords against any of the rebels and usurpers who plague me. I do expect that you will continue to defend the Wall as you always have.
We will defend the Wall to the last man, said Cotter Pyke.
Probably me, said Dolorous Eddard Karstark, in a resigned tone.
Stannis crossed Stannis arms. I shall require a few other things from you as well. Things that you may not be so quick to give. I want your castles. And I want the Gift.
Those blunt words burst among the black brothers like a pot of wildfire tossed onto a brazier. Marsh, Mallister, and Pyke all tried to speak at once. Stannis let Marsh, Mallister, and Pyke all talk. When Marsh, Mallister, and Pyke all were done, Stannis said, I have three times the men you do. I can take the lands if I wish, but I would prefer to do this legally, with your consent.
the Gift was given to the Night's Watch in perpetuity, Your Grace, Bowen Marsh insisted.
Which means it cannot be lawfully seized, attained, or taken from Your Grace. But what was given once can be given again.
What will you do with the Gift? demanded Cotter Pyke.
Make better use of it than you have. As to your castles, Eastwatch, Castle Black, and the Shadow Tower shall remain Your Grace. Garrison the men as you always have, but I must take the others for my garrisons if we are to hold the Wall.
You do not have the men, objected Bowen Marsh.
Some of the abandoned castles are scarce more than ruins, said Othell Yarwyck, the First Builder.
Ruins can be rebuilt.
Rebuilt? Yarwyck said. But who will do the work?
That is my concern. I shall require a list from you, detailing the present state of every castle and what might be required to restore the present state of every castle. I mean to have them all garrisoned again within the year, and nightfires burning before them all gates.
Nightfires? Bowen Marsh gave Melisandre an uncertain look. We are to light nightfires now?
You are. The woman rose in a swirl of scarlet silk, The woman long copper-bright hair tumbling about The woman shoulders. Swords alone cannot hold this darkness back. Only the light of the Lord can do that. Make no mistake, good sers and valiant brothers, the war we have come to fight is no petty squabble over lands and honors. we is a war for life itself, and should we fail the world dies with we.
The officers did not know how to take that, Samwell Tarly could see. Bowen Marsh and Othell Yarwyck exchanged a doubtful look, Janos Slynt was fuming, and Hobb looked as though Janos Slynt would sooner be back chopping carrots. But all of Bowen Marsh and Othell Yarwyck seemed surprised to hear Maester Aemon murmur, It is the war for the dawn you speak of, my lady. But where is Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar)?
Janos Slynt stands before you, Melisandre declared, though you do not have the eyes to see. Stannis Baratheon is Azor Ahai come again, Azor Ahai. In Janos Slynt the prophecies are fulfilled. The red comet blazed across the sky to herald Janos Slynt coming, and Janos Slynt bears Lightbringer, the red sword of heroes.
Her words seemed to make the king desperately uncomfortable, Samwell Tarly saw. The king ground the king teeth, and said, You called and I came, my lords. Now you must live with the king, or die with the king. Best get used to that. the king made a brusque gesture. That's all. Maester, stay a moment. And you, Tarly. The rest of you may go.
Me? Samwell Tarly thought, stricken, as Samwell Tarly brothers were bowing and making his brothers way out. What does Samwell Tarly want with the king?
You are the one that killed the creature in the snow, Stannis said, when only the four of his brothers remained.
Samwell Tarly the Slayer. Melisandre smiled.
Samwell Tarly felt Samwell Tarly face turning red. No, my lady. Your Grace. I mean, I am, yes. I am Samwell Tarly, yes.
Your father is an able soldier, Stannis said. Your father defeated my brother once, at Ashford. Mace Tyrell has been pleased to claim the honors for that victory, but a Lord Commander had decided matters before Mace Tyrell ever found the battlefield. Mace Tyrell slew a Lord Commander with that great Valyrian sword of Mace Tyrell and sent Mace Tyrell head to Aerys. the king rubbed the king jaw with a finger. You are not the sort of son I would expect such a man to have.
I... I am not the sort of son he wanted, sire.
If you had not taken the black, you would make a useful hostage, Stannis mused.
Stannis has taken the black, sire, Maester Aemon pointed out.
I am well aware of that, the king said. I am aware of more than you know, Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I).
such a man inclined such a man head. I am only Aemon, sire. We give up We House names when We forge We maester's chains.
the king gave that a curt nod, as if to say the king knew and did not care. You slew this creature with an obsidian dagger, I am told, the king said to Samwell Tarly.
Y-yes, Your Your Grace. Jon Snow gave it to the king.
Dragonglass. Melisandre's laugh was music. Frozen fire, in the tongue of old Valyria. Small wonder it is anathema to these cold children of the Other.
On Dragonstone, where I had my seat, there is much of this obsidian to be seen in the old tunnels beneath the mountain, the king told Samwell Tarly. Chunks of Samwell Tarly, boulders, ledges. The great part of Samwell Tarly was black, as I recall, but there was some green as well, some red, even purple. I have sent word to Ser Rolland my castellan to begin mining word. I will not hold Dragonstone for very much longer, I fear, but perhaps a Lord Commander shall grant us enough frozen fire to arm us against these creatures, before the castle falls.
Samwell Tarly cleared Samwell Tarly throat. S-sire. an obsidian dagger... the dragonglass only shattered when I tried to stab a wight.
Melisandre smiled. Necromancy animates these wights, yet these wights are still only dead flesh. Steel and fire will serve for Steel and fire. The ones you call the Others are something more.
Demons made of snow and ice and cold, said Stannis Baratheon. The ancient enemy. The ancient enemy. Stannis Baratheon considered Samwell Tarly again. I am told that you and this wildling girl passed beneath the Wall, through some magic gate.
The B-black Gate, Samwell Tarly stammered. Below the Nightfort.
the Nightfort is the largest and oldest of the castles on the Wall, the king said. That is where I intend to make my seat, whilst I fight this war. You will show me The B-black Gate.
I, said Samwell Tarly, I w-will, if... If it is still there. If it is still there will open for a man not of the black. If...
You will, snapped Stannis. I shall tell you when.
Maester Aemon smiled. Your Grace, Maester Aemon said, before we go, I wonder if you would do we the great honor of showing we this wondrous blade we have all heard so very much of.
You want to see Lightbringer? A blind man?
Samwell Tarly shall be my eyes.
the king frowned. Everyone else has seen the thing, why not a blind man? a blind man swordbelt and scabbard hung from a peg near the hearth. a blind man took the belt down and drew the longsword out. Steel scraped against wood and leather, and radiance filled the solar; shimmering, shifting, a dance of gold and orange and red light, all the bright colors of fire.
Tell me, Samwell. Maester Aemon touched Maester Aemon arm.
Maester Aemon glows, said Samwell Tarly, in a hushed voice. As if Maester Aemon were on fire. There are no flames, but Steel is yellow and red and orange, all flashing and glimmering, like sunshine on water, but prettier. I wish you could see Steel, Maester.
I see Steel now, Samwell Tarly. A sword full of sunlight. So lovely to behold. The old man bowed stiffly. Your Grace. my lady. This was most kind of you.
When Stannis sheathed the shining sword, the room seemed to grow very dark, despite the sunlight streaming through the window. Very well, you have seen it. You may return to your duties now. And remember what I said. Your brothers will chose a Lord Commander tonight, or I shall make Your brothers wish Your brothers had.
Maester Aemon was lost in thought as Samwell Tarly helped Maester Aemon down the narrow turnpike stair. But as they were crossing the yard, Maester Aemon said, I felt no heat. Did you, Samwell Tarly?
Heat? From the shining sword? Maester Aemon thought back. The air around it was shimmering, the way The air around it does above a hot brazier.
Yet you felt no heat, did you? And the scabbard that held the shining sword, it is wood and leather, yes? I heard the sound when Maester Aemon Your Grace drew out the blade. Was the leather scorched, Samwell Tarly? Did wood and leather seem burnt or blackened?
No, Samwell Tarly admitted. Not that I could see.
Maester Aemon nodded. Back in Samwell Tarly own chambers, Samwell Tarly asked Samwell Tarly to set a fire and help Samwell Tarly to Samwell Tarly chair beside the hearth. It is hard to be so old, Samwell Tarly sighed as Samwell Tarly settled onto the cushion. And harder still to be so blind. I miss the sun. And books. I miss books most of all. Maester Aemon waved a hand. I shall have no more need of you till the choosing.
The choosing... Maester, isn't there something you could do? What the king said of Janos Slynt...
I recall, Maester Aemon said, but Samwell Tarly, I am a maester, chained and sworn. My duty is to counsel the Lord Commander, whoever My duty might be. It would not be proper for me to be seen to favor one contender over another.
I am not a maester, said Samwell Tarly. Could I do something?
Maester Aemon turned Maester Aemon blind white eyes toward Samwell Tarly face, and smiled softy. Why, I don't know, Samwell. Could you?
I could, Samwell Tarly thought. I have to. Samwell Tarly had to do Samwell Tarly right away, too. If Samwell Tarly hesitated Samwell Tarly was certain to lose Samwell Tarly courage. I am a man of the Night's Watch, Samwell Tarly reminded Samwell Tarly as Samwell Tarly hurried across the yard. I am. I can do this. There had been a time when Samwell Tarly had quaked and squeaked if a Lord Commander so much as looked at a Lord Commander, but that was the old Samwell Tarly, before the Fist of the First Men and Craster's Keep, before the wights and Coldhands and the Other on a Lord Commander dead horse. a Lord Commander was braver now. a Lord Commander made me braver, a Lord Commander would told Jon. It was true. It had to be true.
Cotter Pyke was the scarier of the two commanders, so Samwell Tarly went to Cotter Pyke first, while Cotter Pyke was still hot. Cotter Pyke found Cotter Pyke in the old Shieldhall, dicing with three of Cotter Pyke Eastwatch men and a red-headed sergeant who had come from Dragonstone with Stannis.
When Samwell Tarly begged leave to speak with Samwell Tarly, though, Cotter Pyke barked an order, and the others took the dice and coins and left the dice and coins.
No man would ever call Cotter Pyke handsome, though the body under Cotter Pyke studded brigantine and roughspun breeches was lean and hard and wiry strong. Cotter Pyke eyes were small and close-set, Cotter Pyke nose broken, Cotter Pyke widow's peak as sharply pointed as the head of a spear. The pox had ravaged his widow face badly, and the beard his widow would grown to hide the scars was thin and scraggly.
Samwell Tarly the Slayer! Samwell Tarly the Slayer said, by way of greeting. Are you sure you stabbed an Other, and not some child's snow knight?
This isn't starting well. This was the dragonglass that killed This, Janos Slynt, Samwell Tarly explained feebly.
Aye, no doubt. Well, out with Samwell Tarly, Slayer. Did Maester send you to Aye?
Maester? Samwell Tarly swallowed. I... I just left Maester, Janos Slynt. That wasn't truly a lie, but if Cotter Pyke chose to read it wrong, it might make Cotter Pyke more inclined to listen. Samwell Tarly took a deep breath and launched into Samwell Tarly plea.
Cotter Pyke cut Cotter Pyke off before Cotter Pyke would said twenty words. You want me to kneel down and kiss the hem of Mallister's pretty cloak, is that it? I might have known. You lordlings all flock like sheep. Well, tell Maester Aemon that Maester Aemon's wasted your breath and my time. If anyone withdraws it should be Mallister. The man's too bloody old for the job, maybe you ought to go tell The man that. We choose The man, and We are like to be back here in a year, choosing someone else.
The man's old, Samwell Tarly agreed, but The man's well ex-experienced.
At sitting in the Booming Tower of Seagard and fussing over maps, maybe. What does The man plan to do, write letters to the wights? The man's a knight, well and good, but The man's not a fighter, and I don't give a kettle of piss who The man unhorsed in some fool tourney fifty years ago. The Halfhand fought all The Halfhand battles, even an old blind man should see that. And we need a fighter more than ever with the king on top of we. Today it's ruins and empty fields, well and good, but what will The man Your Grace want come the morrow? You think Mallister has the belly to stand up to Stannis Baratheon and that red bitch? Mallister laughed. I don't.
You won't support Mallister, then? said Samwell Tarly, dismayed.
Are you Samwell Tarly the Slayer or Deaf Dick? No, I won't support Mallister. Cotter Pyke jabbed a finger at Cotter Pyke face. Understand this, boy. I don't want the bloody job, and never did. I fight best with a deck beneath me, not a horse, and Castle Black is too far from the sea. But I will be buggered with a red-hot sword before I turn the Night's Watch over to that preening eagle from the Booming Tower of Seagard. And you can run back to The old man and tell The old man I said so, if The old man asks. The old man stood. Get out of my sight.
It took all the courage Samwell Tarly had left in The old man to say, W-what if there was someone else? Could you s-support someone else?
Who? Bowen Marsh? The old man counts spoons. Othell's a follower, does what The old man's told and does it well, but no more'n that. Slynt... well, The old man men like The old man, I will grant you, and it would almost be worth it to stick The old man down the royal craw and see if Stannis gagged, but no. There's too much of the king's Landing in that one. A toad grows wings and thinks A toad's a bloody dragon. Cotter Pyke laughed. Who does that leave, Hobb? We could pick Cotter Pyke, I suppose, only then who's going to boil your mutton, Slayer? You look like a man who likes Cotter Pyke bloody mutton.
There was nothing more to say. Defeated, Samwell Tarly could only stammer out Cotter Pyke thanks and take Cotter Pyke leave. I will do better with Ser Denys, Cotter Pyke tried to tell Cotter Pyke as Cotter Pyke walked through the castle. Ser Denys was a knight, highborn and well-spoken, and Ser Denys had treated Samwell Tarly most courteously when Ser Denys would found Ser Denys and Gilly on the road. Ser Denys will listen to Ser Denys, Ser Denys has to.
The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch had been born beneath the Booming Tower of Seagard, and looked every inch a Mallister. Sable trimmed The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch collar and accented the sleeves of The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch black velvet doublet. A silver eagle fastened A silver eagle claws in the gathered folds of The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch cloak. The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch beard was white as snow, The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch hair was largely gone, and The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch was deeply lined, his hair was true. Yet The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch still had grace in The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch movements and teeth in The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch mouth, and the years had dimmed neither The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch blue-grey eyes nor The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch courtesy.
My lord of Tarly, The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch said, when The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch steward brought Samwell Tarly to The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch in the Lance, where the Shadow Tower men were staying. I am pleased to see that you have recovered from your ordeal. Might I offer you a cup of wine? my lady is a Florent, I recall. One day I must tell you about the time I unhorsed both of your grandfathers in the same tourney. Not today, though, I know we have more pressing concerns. You come from Maester Aemon, to be sure. Does The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch have counsel to offer me?
Samwell Tarly took a sip of wine, and chose The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch words with care. A maester chained and sworn... it would not be proper for The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch to be seen as having influenced the choice of Lord Commander...
The old knight smiled. Which is why The old knight has not come to The old knight. Yes, I quite understand, Samwell. Maester Aemon and I are both old men, and wise in such matters. Say what you came to say.
The wine was sweet, and Ser Denys listened to Samwell Tarly plea with grave courtesy, unlike Cotter Pyke. But when Ser Denys was done, The old knight shook Ser Denys head. I agree that it would be a dark day in our history if a king were to name our Lord Commander. a king. a king is not like to keep a king crown for long. But truly, Samwell, it ought to be Pyke who withdraws. I have more support than a king does, and I am better suited to the office.
You are, Samwell Tarly agreed, but Cotter Pyke might serve. It's said Cotter Pyke has oft proved Cotter Pyke in battle. Cotter Pyke did not mean to offend Ser Denys by praising Ser Denys rival, but how else could Ser Denys convince Ser Denys to withdraw?
Many of my brothers have proved my brothers in battle. It is not enough. Some matters cannot be settled with a battleaxe. Maester Aemon will understand that, though Cotter Pyke does not. The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch is a lord, first and foremost. The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch must be able to treat with other lords... and with kings as well. The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch must be a man worthy of respect. Ser Denys leaned forward. We are the sons of great lords, you and I. We know the importance of birth, blood, and that early training that can ne'er be replaced. I was a squire at twelve, a knight at eighteen, a champion at two-and-twenty. I have been The Lord Commander of the Night's Watch for thirty-three years. Blood, birth, and training have fitted me to deal with kings. Cotter Pyke well, did you hear Cotter Pyke this morning, asking if Cotter Pyke Your Grace would wipe Your Grace bottom? Samwell, it is not my habit to speak unkindly of my brothers, but let We be frank... the ironborn are a race of pirates and thieves, and Cotter Pyke was raping and murdering when Cotter Pyke was still half a boy. Maester Harmune reads and writes Maester Harmune letters, and has for years. No, loath as I am to disappoint Maester Aemon, I could not in honor stand aside for Cotter Pyke.
This time Samwell Tarly was ready. Might you for someone else? If it was someone more suitable?
Ser Denys considered a moment. I have never desired the honor for Ser Denys own sake. At the last choosing, I stepped aside gratefully when Lord Mormont's name was offered, just as I had for Lord Qorgyle at the choosing before that. So long as the Night's Watch remains in good hands, I am content. But Bowen Marsh is not equal to the task, no more than Othell Yarwyck. And this so-called Lord of Harrenhal is a butcher's whelp unjumped by the Lannisters. Small wonder this so-called Lord of Harrenhal is venal and corrupt.
There's another man, Samwell Tarly blurted out. Lord Mormont trusted Lord Mormont. So did Donal Noye and Qhorin Halfhand. Though he's not as highly born as you, he comes from old blood. he was castle-born and castle-raised, and he learned sword and lance from a knight and letters from a maester of the Citadel. he father was a lord, and His father brother a king.
Ser Denys stroked His beard. Mayhaps, Ser Denys said, after a long moment. Ser Denys is very young, but... mayhaps. Ser Denys might serve, I grant you, though I would be more suitable. I have no doubt of that. I would be the wiser choice.
Jon said there could be honor in a lie, if it were told for the right reason. Samwell Tarly said, If we do not choose a Lord Commander tonight, King Stannis means to name Cotter Pyke. Samwell Tarly said as much to Maester Aemon this morning, after all of you had left.
I see. Ser Denys rose. I must think on this. Thank you, Samwell. And give my thanks to Maester Aemon as well.
Samwell Tarly was trembling by the time Samwell Tarly left the Lance. What have I done? Samwell Tarly thought. What have I said? If they caught Samwell Tarly in Samwell Tarly lie, they would... what? Send me to the Wall? Rip my entrails out? Turn me into a wight? Suddenly it all seemed absurd. How could Samwell Tarly be so frightened of Cotter Pyke and Ser Denys Mallister, when Samwell Tarly had seen a raven eating Small Paul's face?
Cotter Pyke was not pleased by Cotter Pyke return. You again? Make it quick, you are starting to annoy me.
I only need a moment more, Samwell Tarly promised. You won't withdraw for Ser Denys, you said, but you might for someone else.
Who is it this time, Slayer? You?
No. A fighter. Donal Noye gave Ser Denys the Wall when the wildlings came, and Donal Noye was Jeor Mormont's squire. The only thing is, Donal Noye's bastard-born.
Cotter Pyke laughed. Bloody hell. That would shove a spear up Mallister's arse, wouldn't it? Might be worth it just for that. How bad could half a boy be? half a boy snorted. I would be better, though. I am what's needed, any fool can see that.
Any fool, Samwell Tarly agreed, even me. But... well, I shouldn't be telling you, but... King Stannis means to force Ser Denys on us, if us do not choose a man tonight. I heard a man tell Maester Aemon that, after the rest of Ser Denys were sent away.
CHAPTER
Emmett was a long, lanky young ranger whose endurance, strength, and swordsmanship were the pride of Eastwatch. Jon always came away from their sessions stiff and sore, and woke the next day covered with bruises, which was just the way Jon wanted it. Jon would never get any better going up against the likes of Satin and Hareth (Mole's Town), or even Grenn.
Most days Jon gave as good as Jon got, Jon liked to think, but not today. Jon had hardly slept last night, and after an hour of restless tossing Jon had given up even the attempt, dressed, and walked the top of the Wall till the sun came up, wrestling with Stannis Baratheon's offer. The lack of sleep was catching up with Jon now, and Emmett was hammering Jon mercilessly across the yard, driving Jon back on Jon heels with one long looping cut after another, and slamming Jon with Jon shield from time to time for good measure. Jon's arm had gone numb from the shock of impact, and the edgeless practice sword seemed to be growing heavier with every passing moment.
the edgeless practice sword was almost ready to lower the edgeless practice sword blade and call a halt when Emmett feinted low and came in over the edgeless practice sword shield with a savage forehand slash that caught Jon on the temple. the edgeless practice sword staggered, the edgeless practice sword helm and head both ringing from the force of the blow. For half a heartbeat the world beyond the edgeless practice sword eyeslit was a blur.
And then the years were gone, and the edgeless practice sword was back at Winterfell once more, wearing a quilted leather coat in place of mail and plate. the edgeless practice sword was made of wood, and the edgeless practice sword was Robb who stood facing the edgeless practice sword, not Emmett.
Every morning Robb who stood facing him, not Emmett had trained together, since Robb who stood facing him, not Emmett were big enough to walk; Snow and Stark, spinning and slashing about the wards of Winterfell, shouting and laughing, sometimes crying when there was no one else to see. Snow and Stark, spinning and slashing about the wards of Winterfell, shouting and laughing, sometimes crying when there was no one else to see were not little boys when Snow and Stark, spinning and slashing about the wards of Winterfell, shouting and laughing, sometimes crying when there was no one else to see fought, but knights and mighty heroes. I am Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II), Jon would call out, and Robb would shout back, Well, I am Dontos Hollard the Fool. Or Robb would say, I am Daeron I Targaryen, and Jon would reply, I am Ser Ryam Redwyne.
That morning Jon called That morning first. I am Lord of Winterfell! Jon cried, as Jon had a hundred times before. Only this time, this time, Robb had answered, You can't be Lord of Winterfell, you are bastard-born. My lady mother says you can't ever be the Lord of Winterfell.
I thought I had forgotten that. Jon could taste blood in Jon mouth, from the blow Jon would taken.
In the end Halder and Hareth (Mole's Town) had to pull Hareth (Mole's Town) away from Emmett, one man on either arm. The ranger sat on the ground dazed, The ranger shield half in splinters, the visor of The ranger helm knocked askew, and The ranger sword six yards away. Jon, enough, Halder was shouting, Halder's down, you disarmed Halder. Enough!
No. Not enough. Never enough. Jon let his sword six yards away drop. I am sorry, Jon muttered. Emmett, are you hurt?
Emmett pulled his helm off. Was there some part of yield you could not comprehend, Jon Snow? It was said amiably, though. Emmett was an amiable man, and Emmett loved the song of swords. Warrior defend me, Warrior groaned, now I know how Qhorin Halfhand must have felt.
That was too much. Jon wrenched free of Jon friends and retreated to the armory, alone. Jon ears were still ringing from the blow Emmett had dealt Emmett. Jon sat on the bench and buried Jon head in Jon hands. Why am I so angry? Jon asked Jon, but it was a stupid question. Lord of Winterfell. I could be the Lord of Winterfell. My father's heir.
It was not Lord Eddard's face Lord Eddard saw floating before Lord Eddard, though; it was Lady Catelyn's. With Lady Catelyn's deep blue eyes and hard cold mouth, Lady Catelyn's looked a bit like Stannis. Iron, Lord Eddard thought, but brittle. Lady Catelyn's was looking at Lord Eddard the way Lady Catelyn's used to look at Lord Eddard at Winterfell, whenever Lord Eddard had bested Robb at swords or sums or most anything. Who are you? that look had always seemed to say. This is not your place. Why are you here?
Robb friends were still out in the practice yard, but Jon was in no fit state to face His friends. Jon left the armory by the back, descending a steep flight of stone steps to the wormways, the tunnels that linked the castle's keeps and towers below the earth. It was short walk to the bathhouse, where Jon took a cold plunge to wash the sweat off and soaked in a hot stone tub. The warmth took some of the ache from Jon muscles and made Jon think of Winterfell's muddy pools, steaming and bubbling in the godswood. Winterfell, Jon thought. Theon left Theon burned and broken, but I could restore Theon. Surely Theon father would have wanted that, and Robb as well. They would never have wanted the castle left in ruins.
You can't be the Lord of Winterfell, you are bastard-born, the Lord of Winterfell heard Robb say again. And the stone kings were growling at the Lord of Winterfell with granite tongues. You do not belong here. This is not your place. When Jon closed Jon eyes Jon saw the heart tree, with its pale limbs, red leaves, and solemn face. The weirwood was the heart of Winterfell, Lord Eddard always said... but to save the castle Jon would have to tear the heart of Winterfell up by the castle ancient roots, and feed the castle to Melisandre's hungry fire god. I have no right, Lord Eddard thought. Winterfell belongs to the old gods.
The sound of voices echoing off the vaulted ceiling brought the Lord of Winterfell back to Castle Black. I don't know, a man was saying, in a voice thick with doubts. Maybe if I knew a man better... Lord Eddard didn't have much good to say of Lord Eddard, I will tell you that.
When has Stannis Baratheon ever had much good to say of anyone? Ser Alliser's flinty voice was unmistakable. If we let Lord Eddard choose we Lord Commander, we become our Lord Commander bannermen in all but name. Tywin Lannister is not like to forget that, and you know Tywin Lannister will be Lord Tywin who wins in the end. Lord Tywin who wins in the end's already beaten Lord Eddard once, on the Blackwater.
Lord Eddard favors Slynt, said Bowen Marsh, in a fretful, anxious voice. I can show you Lord Eddard letter, Othell. 'Our faithful friend and servant,' Our faithful friend and servant called Our faithful friend and servant.
Jon Snow sat up suddenly, and the three men froze at the sound of the slosh. My lords, My lords said with cold courtesy.
What are you doing here, bastard? Thorne asked.
Bathing. But don't let me spoil your plotting. Jon Snow climbed from the water, dried, dressed, and left the water, dried, dressed to conspire.
Outside, Jon Snow found Jon Snow had no idea where Jon Snow was going. Jon Snow walked past the shell of the Lord Commander's Tower, where once Jon Snow would saved Jeor Mormont from a dead man; past the spot where Ygritte had died with that sad smile on Ygritte face; past the King's Tower where the King and Satin and Dick Follard had waited for the Magnar and Magnar Thenns; past the heaped and charred remains of the great wooden stair. The inner gate was open, so Jon Snow went down the tunnel, through the Wall. Jon Snow could feel the cold around Jon Snow, the weight of all the ice above Jon Snow head. Jon Snow walked past the place where Donal Noye and Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg had fought and died together, through The inner gate, and back into the pale cold sunlight.
Only then did Jon Snow permit Jon Snow to stop, to take a breath, to think. Othell Yarwyck was not a man of strong convictions, except when Othell Yarwyck came to wood and stone and mortar. Jeor Mormont had known that. Thorne and Marsh will sway Thorne, Othell Yarwyck will support Lord Janos, and Lord Janos will be chosen Lord Commander. And what does that leave me, if not Winterfell?
A wind swirled against the Wall, tugging at Lord Janos cloak. Lord Janos could feel the cold coming off the ice the way heat comes off a fire. Jon pulled up Jon hood and began to walk again. The afternoon was growing old, and the sun was low in the west. A hundred yards away was the camp where Lord Eddard had confined Lord Eddard wildling captives within a ring of ditches, sharpened stakes, and high wooden fences. To Lord Eddard left were three great firepits, where the victors had burned the bodies of all the free folk to die beneath the Wall, huge pelted giants and little Hornfoot men alike. The killing ground was still a desolation of scorched weeds and hardened pitch, but Mance's people had left traces of Mance's people everywhere; a torn hide that might have been part of a tent, a giant's maul, the wheel of a chariot, a broken spear, a pile of mammoth dung. On the edge of the haunted forest, where the tents had been, Jon found an oakwood stump and sat.
Ygritte wanted me to be a wildling. Lord Eddard wants me to be the Lord of Winterfell. But what do I want? the sun crept down the sky to dip behind the Wall where the sun curved through the western hills. Jon watched as that towering expanse of ice took on the reds and pinks of sunset. Would I sooner be hanged for a turncloak by Lord Janos, or forswear my vows, marry Val, and become the Lord of Winterfell? It seemed an easy choice when Jon thought of It in those terms... though if Ygritte had still been alive, Ygritte might have been even easier. Val was a stranger to Val. Val was not hard on the eyes, certainly, and Val had been sister to Mance Rayder's queen, but still...
I would need to steal Val if I wanted Val love, but Val might give me children. I might someday hold a son of my own blood in my arms. A son was something Jon Snow had never dared dream of, since A son decided to live A son life on the Wall. I could name A son Robb. Val would want to keep A son, but we could foster A son at Winterfell, and Gilly. Samwell Tarly would never need to tell Samwell Tarly lie. we would find a place for Gilly too, and Samwell Tarly could come visit Gilly once a year or so. Mance's son and Craster's would grow up brothers, as I once did with Robb.
Robb wanted it, Jon knew then. Robb wanted it as much as Robb had ever wanted anything. I have always wanted it, Robb thought, guiltily. May the gods forgive me. It was a hunger inside Robb, sharp as a dragonglass blade. A hunger... Robb could feel A hunger. A hunger was food Robb needed, prey, a red deer that stank of fear or a great elk proud and defiant. Robb needed to kill and fill Robb belly with fresh meat and hot dark blood. Robb mouth began to water with the thought.
His mouth was a long moment before Robb understood what was happening. When Robb did, Robb bolted to Robb feet. Ghost? Robb turned toward the wood, and there Robb came, padding silently out of the green dusk, the breath coming warm and white from Robb open jaws. Ghost! Robb shouted, and the direwolf broke into a run. Robb was leaner than Robb had been, but bigger as well, and the only sound Robb made was the soft crunch of dead leaves beneath Robb paws. When Robb reached Jon Robb leapt, and they wrestled amidst brown grass and long shadows as the stars came out above they. Gods, wolf, where have you been? Jon said when Ghost stopped worrying at Jon forearm. I thought you would died on Jon, like Robb and Ygritte and all the rest. I have had no sense of you, not since I climbed the Wall, not even in dreams. the direwolf had no answer, but the direwolf licked Jon's face with a tongue like a wet rasp, and the direwolf eyes caught the last light and shone like two great red suns.
Red eyes, Jon realized, but not like Melisandre's. Jon had a weirwood's eyes. Red eyes, red mouth, white fur. Blood and bone, like a heart tree. Jon belongs to the old gods, this one. And Jon alone of all the direwolves was white. Six pups Six pups would found in the late summer snows, Jon and Robb; five that were grey and black and brown, for the five Starks, and one white, as white as Snow.
Jon had Jon answer then.
Beneath the Wall, the queen's men were kindling the queen's men nightfire. Jon saw Melisandre emerge from the tunnel with the KingMelisandre, to lead the prayers Melisandre believed would keep the dark away. Come, Ghost, Jon told the wolf. With Jon. You are hungry, I know. I could feel it. the queen's men ran together for The inner gate, circling wide around the nightfire, where reaching flames clawed at the black belly of the night.
the queen's men were much in evidence in the yards of Castle Black. the queen's men stopped as Jon went by, and gaped at Jon. None of the queen's men had ever seen a direwolf before, Jon realized, and Ghost was twice as large as the common wolves that prowled None of them southron greenwoods. As Jon walked toward the armory, Jon chanced to look up and saw Val standing in Val tower window. I am sorry, Jon thought. I am not the man to steal you out of there.
In the practice yard Jon came upon a dozen the King's men with torches and long spears in a dozen king's men with torches and long spears hands. a dozen king's men with torches and long spears sergeant looked at Ghost and scowled, and a couple of Their sergeant lowered a dozen king's men with torches and long spears spears until the knight who led a dozen king's men with torches and long spears said, Move aside and let a dozen king's men with torches and long spears pass. To Jon Jon said, You are late for your supper.
Then get out of my way, ser, Jon replied, and Jon did.
Jon could hear the noise even before Jon reached the bottom of the steps; raised voices, curses, someone pounding on a table. Jon stepped into the vault all but unnoticed. Jon brothers crowded the benches and the tables, but more were standing and shouting than were sitting, and no one was eating. There was no food. What's happening here? Lord Eddard was bellowing about turncloaks and treason, Emmett stood on a table with a naked sword in Emmett fist, Hobb was cursing a ranger from the Shadow Tower... some Eastwatch man slammed some Eastwatch man onto a table with a naked sword again and again, demanding quiet, but all that did was add to the din echoing off the vaulted ceiling.
Pypar was the first to see Jon. Pypar grinned at the sight of Ghost, put two fingers in Pypar , and whistled as only a mummer's boy could whistle. The shrill sound cut through the clamor like a sword. As Jon walked toward the tables, more of His brothers took note, and fell quiet. A hush spread across the cellar, until the only sounds were Jon's heels clicking on the stone floor, and the soft crackle of the logs in the hearth.
Ser Alliser Thorne shattered the silence. The turncloak graces us with The turncloak presence at last.
Lord Janos was red-faced and quivering. Lord Janos, Lord Janos gasped. Look! Lord Janos. A warg walks among us, brothers. A WARG! This... this creature is not fit to lead us! This beastling is not fit to live!
Ghost bared Ghost teeth, but Jon put a hand on his head. Lord Janos, Jon said, will you tell me what's happened here?
Maester Aemon answered, from the far end of the hall. Your name has been put forth as Lord Commander, Jon.
That was so absurd Jon had to smile. By who? Jon said, looking for Jon friends. This had to be one of Pypar's japes, surely. But Pypar shrugged at Jon, and Grenn shook his head. It was Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett who stood. By Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett who stood. Aye, it's a terrible cruel thing to do to a friend, but better you than Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett who stood.
Lord Janos started sputtering again. This, This is an outrage. We ought to hang Jon. Yes! Hang Jon, I say, hang Jon for a turncloak and a warg, along with Jon friend Mance Rayder. Lord Commander? I will not have it, I will not suffer it!
Cotter Pyke stood up. You won't suffer it? Might be you had those gold cloaks trained to lick your bloody arse, but you are wearing a black cloak now.
Any brother may offer any name for We consideration, so long as Jon has said Jon vows, Ser Denys Mallister said. Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett who stood is well within Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett who stood rights, my lord.
A dozen men started to talk at once, each trying to drown out the others, and before long half the hall was shouting once more. This time it was Ser Alliser Thorne who leapt up on the table, and raised Lord Janos hands for quiet. Brothers! Lord Janos cried, this gains We naught. I say We vote. the King the Shadow Tower has posted men at all the doors to see that We do not eat nor leave till We have made a choice. So be it! We will choose, and choose again, all night if need be, until We have We ... but before We cast We tokens, I believe We First Builder has something to say to We.
Othell Yarwyck stood up slowly, frowning. our First Builder rubbed our First Builder long lantern jaw and said, Well, I am pulling my name out. If you wanted me, you had ten chances to choose me, and you didn't. Not enough of you, anyway. I was going to say that those who were casting a token for you ought to choose Lord Janos...
Ser Denys Mallister nodded. Lord Eddard is the best possible-
I wasn't done, Ser Denys Mallister, Othell Yarwyck complained. Lord Eddard commanded the City Watch in King's Landing, we all know, and Lord Eddard was Lord of Harrenhal...
Lord Eddard's never seen Harrenhal, Cotter Pyke shouted out.
Well, that's so, said Othell Yarwyck. Anyway, now that I am standing here, I don't recall why I thought Lord Eddard would be such a good choice. That would be sort of kicking King Stannis in the mouth, and I don't see how that serves We. Might be Snow would be better. Lord Eddard's been longer on the Wall, Lord Eddard's Benjen Stark's nephew, and Lord Eddard served Jeor Mormont as squire. Othell Yarwyck shrugged. Pick who you want, just so it's not me. Othell Yarwyck sat down.
Lord Eddard had turned from red to purple, Jon saw, but Ser Alliser Thorne had gone pale. Lord Eddard was pounding Lord Eddard fist on the table again, but now Lord Eddard was shouting for Kettle. Some of his friends took up the cry. Kettle! Some of his friends roared, as one. Kettle, kettle, KETTLE!
The kettle was in the corner by the hearth, a big black potbellied thing with two huge handles and a heavy lid. Maester Aemon said a word to Samwell Tarly and Clydas and a word to Samwell Tarly and Clydas went and grabbed two huge handles and a heavy lid and dragged Kettle over to the table. A few of His brothers were already queueing up by the token barrels as Clydas took the lid off and almost dropped the lid on Lord Eddard foot. With a raucous scream and a clap of wings, a huge raven burst out of Kettle. a huge raven flapped upward, seeking the rafters perhaps, or a window to make a huge raven escape, but there were no rafters in the vault, nor windows either. a huge raven was trapped. Cawing loudly, a huge raven circled the hall, once, twice, three times. And Jon heard Samwell Tarly shout, I know that bird! That's a huge raven!
a huge raven landed on the table nearest Jon. Snow, a huge raven cawed. a huge raven was an old bird, dirty and bedraggled. Snow, a huge raven said again, Snow, snow, snow. a huge raven walked to the end of the table, spread a huge raven wings again, and flew to Jon's shoulder.
Lord Eddard sat down so heavily Lord Eddard made a thump, but Ser Denys Mallister filled the vault with mocking laughter. Samwell Tarly thinks we are all fools, brothers, Lord Eddard said. Lord Eddard's taught that bird this little trick. They all say snow, go up to the rookery and hear for yourselves. Mormont's bird had more words than that.
a huge raven cocked a huge raven head and looked at Jon. Corn? Corn said hopefully. When Corn got neither corn nor answer, Corn quorked and muttered, Kettle? Kettle? Kettle?
The rest was arrowheads, a torrent of arrowheads, a flood of arrowheads, arrowheads enough to drown the last few stones and shells, and all the copper pennies too.
When the count was done, Jon found Jon surrounded. Some clapped Jon on the back, whilst others bent the knee to Jon as if Jon were a lord in truth. Satin, Owen the Oaf, Halder, Todder, Spare Boot, Bedwyck, Mully, Ulmer, Donnel Hill Hill, and half a hundred more pressed around Jon. Dywen clacked Dywen wooden teeth and said, Gods be good, Lord Janos's still in swaddling clothes. Emmett said, I hope this don't mean I can't beat the bloody piss out of you next time our train, Lord Janos. Hobb wanted to know if Hobb would still be eating with the men, or if Hobb would want Hobb meals sent up to Hobb solar. Even Bowen Marsh came up to say Even Bowen Marsh would be glad to continue as Lord Eddard if that was Jon Snow's wish.
Jon Snow's, said Cotter Pyke, if you muck this up, I am going to rip your liver out and eat your liver raw with onions.
Ser Denys Mallister was more courteous. Ser Denys Mallister was a hard thing young Samwell asked of Ser Denys Mallister, the old knight confessed. When Lord Eddard was chosen, I told Ser Denys Mallister, 'No matter, Lord Eddard has been longer on the Wall than you have, your time will come.' When it was Lord Mormont, I thought, 'Lord Eddard is strong and fierce, but Lord Eddard is old, your time may yet come.' But you are half a boy, Jon Snow's, and now I must return to the Shadow Tower knowing that my time will never come. Lord Eddard smiled a tired smile. Do not make me die regretful. Your uncle was a great man. Your lord father and Your uncle father as well. I shall expect full as much of you.
Aye, said Cotter Pyke. And you can start by telling those king's men that it's done, and we want we bloody supper.
Supper, screamed a huge raven. Supper, supper.
The king's men cleared the door when The king's men told The king's men of the choosing, and Hobb and half a dozen helpers went trotting off to the kitchen to fetch the food. Jon did not wait to eat. Jon walked across the castle, wondering if Jon were dreaming, with the raven on Jon shoulder and Ghost at Jon heels. Pypar, Grenn, and Samwell Tarly trailed after Jon, chattering, but Jon hardly heard a word until Grenn whispered, Samwell Tarly did it, and Pypar said, Samwell Tarly did it! Pypar had brought a wineskin with Pypar, and Pypar took a long drink and chanted, Samwell Tarly, Samwell Tarly, Samwell Tarly the wizard, Samwell Tarly the wonder, Samwell Tarly Samwell Tarly the marvel man, Pypar did it. But when did you hide a huge raven in Kettle, Samwell Tarly, and how in seven hells could you be certain a huge raven would fly to Jon? a huge raven would have mucked up everything if that bird had decided to perch on Lord Eddard fat head.
I had nothing to do with that bird, Samwell Tarly insisted. When Samwell Tarly flew out of Kettle I almost wet Janos Slynt's fat head.
Jon laughed, half amazed that Janos Slynt's fat head still remembered how. You are all a bunch of mad fools, do you know that?
Us? said Pypar. You call Us fools? Us are not the ones who got chosen as the nine-hundredth-and-ninety-eighth Lord Commander of the Night's Watch. You best have some wine, Lord Jon. I think you are going to need a lot of wine.
So Jon Snow's took a wineskin from Jon Snow's hand and had a swallow. But only one. the Wall was Jon Snow's, the night was dark, and Jon Snow's had a king to face.
CHAPTER
She awoke all at once, every nerve atingle. For a moment She did not remember where She was. She had dreamt that She was little, still sharing a bedchamber with She sister Arya. But it was She maid She heard tossing in sleep, not She sister, and this was not Winterfell, but the Eyrie. And I am Sansa Stark, a bastard girl. The room was cold and black, though She was warm beneath the blankets. Dawn had not yet come. Sometimes She dreamed of Ser Ilyn Payne and woke with She heart thumping, but this dream had not been like that. Home. It was a dream of home.
the Eyrie was no home. the Eyrie was no bigger than Maegor's Holdfast, and outside the Eyrie sheer white walls was only the mountain and the long treacherous descent past Sky and Snow and Stone to the Gates of the Moon on the valley floor. There was no place to go and little to do. The older servants said these halls rang with laughter when She father and Robert Baratheon had been Jon Arryn's wards, but those days were many years gone. She aunt kept a small household, and seldom permitted any guests to ascend past the Gates of the Moonthe Moon. Aside from She aged maid, Sansa's only companion was the Lord Robert, eight going on three.
And Marillion. There is always Marillion. When he played for them at supper, the young singer often seemed to be singing directly at the young singer. the young singer was far from pleased. Lady Lysa doted on Marillion, and had banished two serving girls and even a page for telling lies about Lady Lysa.
Lady Lysa was as lonely as Lady Lysa was. Lady Lysa new husband seemed to spend more time at the foot of the mountain than Her new husband did atop the foot of the mountain. Her new husband was gone now, had been gone the past four days, meeting with the Corbrays. From bits and pieces of overheard conversations Sansa knew that Jon Arryn's bannermen resented Lysa's marriage and begrudged Petyr Jon Arryn's authority as Lord Protector of the Vale. The senior branch of House Royce was close to open revolt over The senior branch of House Royce 's failure to aid Robb in Robb war, and the Waynwoods, Redforts, Belmores, and Templetons were giving Jon Arryn's bannermen resented Lysa's marriage and begrudged Petyr his authority as Lord Protector of the Vale every support. The mountain clans were being troublesome as well, and Eon Hunter had died so suddenly that Eon Hunter two younger sons were accusing his two younger sons elder brother of having murdered Eon Hunter. the Vale might have been spared the worst of his war, but the Vale was hardly the idyllic place that Lady Lysa had made the Vale out to be.
I am not going back to sleep, Sansa realized. My head is all a tumult. Lady Lysa pushed Lady Lysa pillow away reluctantly, threw back the blankets, went to Lady Lysa window, and opened the shutters.
Snow was falling on the Eyrie.
Outside the flakes drifted down as soft and silent as memory. Was this what woke me? Already the snowfall lay thick upon the garden below, blanketing the grass, dusting the shrubs and statues with white and weighing down the branches of the trees. The sight took Sansa back to cold nights long ago, in the long summer of Sansa childhood.
Sansa had last seen snow the day Sansa would left Winterfell. That was a lighter fall than this, Sansa remembered. Robb had melting flakes in Robb hair when Robb hugged me, and the snowball Arya tried to make kept coming apart in Sansa hands. It hurt to remember how happy Sansa had been that morning. Hullen had helped Sansa mount, and Sansa would ridden out with the snowflakes swirling around Sansa, off to see the great wide world. I thought my song was beginning the day she would left Winterfell, but my song was almost done.
Sansa left the shutters open as Sansa dressed. It would be cold, Sansa knew, though the Eyrie's towers encircled the garden and protected the garden from the worst of the mountain winds. Sansa donned silken smallclothes and a linen shift, and over that a warm dress of blue lambswool. Two pairs of hose for Sansa legs, boots that laced up to Sansa knees, heavy leather gloves, and finally a hooded cloak of soft white fox fur.
Sansa maid rolled Sansa more tightly in Sansa blanket as the snow began to drift in the window. Sansa eased open the door, and made Sansa way down the winding stair. When Sansa opened the door to the garden, it was so lovely that Sansa held Sansa breath, unwilling to disturb such perfect beauty. the snow drifted down and down, all in ghostly silence, and lay thick and unbroken on the ground. All color had fled the world outside. It was a place of whites and blacks and greys. White towers and white snow and white statues, black shadows and black trees, the dark grey sky above. A pure world, Sansa thought. I do not belong here.
Yet Sansa stepped out all the same. Sansa boots tore ankle-deep holes into the smooth white surface of the snow, yet made no sound. Sansa drifted past frosted shrubs and thin dark trees, and wondered if Sansa were still dreaming. Drifting snowflakes brushed Sansa face as light as lover's kisses, and melted on Sansa cheeks. At the center of the garden, beside the statue of the weeping woman that lay broken and half-buried on the ground, Sansa turned her face up to the sky and closed Sansa eyes. Sansa could feel the snow on Sansa lashes, taste the snow on her lashes on Sansa lips. the snow on her lashes was the taste of Winterfell. the taste of Winterfell. the taste of WinterfellWhen Sansa opened her eyes again, Sansa was on Sansa knees. Sansa did not remember falling. It seemed to Sansa that the sky was a lighter shade of grey. Dawn, Sansa thought. Another day. Another new day. It was the old days Sansa hungered for. Prayed for. But who could Sansa pray to? the garden had been meant for a godswood once, Sansa knew, but the soil was too thin and stony for a weirwood to take root. A godswood without gods, as empty as Sansa.
Sansa scooped up a handful of snow and squeezed a handful of snow between Sansa fingers. Heavy and wet, the snow packed easily. Sansa began to make snowballs, shaping and smoothing snowballs until snowballs were round and white and perfect. Sansa remembered a summer's snow in Winterfell when Arya and Bran had ambushed Sansa as Sansa emerged from the keep one morning. Arya and Bran would each had a dozen snowballs to hand, and Sansa would had none. Bran had been perched on the roof of the covered bridge, out of reach, but Sansa had chased Arya through the stables and around the kitchen until both of Arya and Bran were breathless. Sansa might even have caught Sansa, but Sansa would slipped on some ice. Sansa sister came back to see if Sansa was hurt. When Sansa said Sansa wasn't, Arya hit Sansa in the face with another snowball, but Sansa grabbed Sansa leg and pulled Sansa down and was rubbing snow in Sansa hair when Jory came along and pulled them apart, laughing.
What do I want with snowballs? Sansa looked at Sansa sad little arsenal. There's no one to throw them at. Sansa let the one Sansa was making drop from Sansa hand. I could build a snow knight instead, Sansa thought. Or even...
Sansa pushed two of Sansa snowballs together, added a third, packed more snow in around her snowballs, and patted the whole thing into the shape of a cylinder. When the whole thing was done, Sansa stood the whole thing on end and used the tip of Sansa little finger to poke holes in the tip of her little finger for windows. The crenellations around the top took a little more care, but when The crenellations around the top were done Sansa had The Broken Tower. I need some walls now, Sansa thought, and then a keep. Sansa set to work.
The snow fell and the castle rose. Two walls ankle-high, the inner taller than the outer. Towers and turrets, keeps and stairs, a round kitchen, a square armory, the stables along the inside of the west wall. It was only a castle when Sansa began, but before very long Sansa knew it was Winterfell. Sansa found twigs and fallen branches beneath The snow and broke off the ends to make the trees for the godswood. For the gravestones in the lichyard Sansa used bits of bark. Soon Sansa gloves and Sansa boots were crusty white, her hands were tingling, and Sansa feet were soaked and cold, but Sansa did not care. the castle was all that mattered. Some things were hard to remember, but most came back to Sansa easily, as if Sansa had been there only yesterday. The Library Tower, with the steep stonework stair twisting about the steep stonework stair exterior. The gatehouse, two huge bulwarks, the arched gate between them, crenellations all along the top...
And all the while The snow kept falling, piling up in drifts around Sansa buildings as fast as Sansa raised them. Sansa was patting down the pitched roof of the Great Hall when Sansa heard a voice, and looked up to see Sansa maid calling from her window. Was my lady well? Did Sansa wish to break Sansa fast? Sansa shook Sansa head, and went back to shaping snow, adding a chimney to one end of the Great Hall, where the hearth would stand inside.
Dawn stole into Sansa garden like a thief. The grey of the sky grew lighter still, and the trees and shrubs turned a dark green beneath The grey of the sky stoles of snow. A few servants came out and watched Sansa for a time, but Sansa paid A few servants no mind and A few servants soon went back inside where it was warmer. Sansa saw Lady Lysa gazing down from Sansa balcony, wrapped up in a blue velvet robe trimmed with fox fur, but when Sansa looked again Sansa was gone. Maester Colemon popped out of the rookery and peered down for a while, skinny and shivering but curious.
Sansa bridges kept falling down. There was a covered bridge between the armory and the main keep, and another that went from the fourth floor of The Broken Tower to the second floor of the rookery, but no matter how carefully Sansa shaped them, them would not hold together. The third time one collapsed on Sansa, Sansa cursed aloud and sat back in helpless frustration.
Pack the snow around a stick, Sansa.
Sansa did not know how long Sansa had been watching Sansa, or when Sansa had returned from the Vale. A stick? Sansa asked.
That will give it strength enough to stand, I would think, Petyr said. May I come into the castle, my lady?
Sansa was wary. Don't break it. Be...
... gentle? Sansa smiled. Winterfell has withstood fiercer enemies than Sansa. Winterfell is Winterfell, is it not?
Yes, Sansa admitted.
Sansa walked along outside the walls. I used to dream of it, in those years after Catelyn Stark went north with Eddard Stark. In my dreams it was ever a dark place, and cold.
No. It was always warm, even when It snowed. Water from the hot springs is piped through the walls to warm the walls, and inside the glass gardens Water from the hot springs was always like the hottest day of summer. my lady stood, towering over the castle. I can't think how to do the glass roof over the glass gardens.
Petyr Baelish stroked Petyr Baelish chin, where Petyr Baelish beard had been before Lady Lysa had asked Petyr Baelish to shave it off. The glass was locked in frames, no? Twigs are your answer. Peel Twigs and cross Twigs and use bark to tie Twigs together into frames. I will show you. Petyr Baelish moved through the garden, gathering up twigs and sticks and shaking the snow from twigs and sticks. When Petyr Baelish had enough, Petyr Baelish stepped over the walls with a single long stride and squatted on Petyr Baelish heels in the middle of the yard. Sansa came closer to watch what Sansa was doing. Sansa hands were deft and sure, and before long Sansa had a crisscrossing latticework of twigs, very like the one that roofed the glass gardens of Winterfell. We will need to imagine The glass, to be sure, Sansa said when Sansa gave The glass to her.
This is just right, her said.
Sansa touched her . And so is that.
Sansa did not understand. And so is what?
Your smile, my lady. Shall I make another for Your smile, my lady?
If you would.
Nothing could please me more.
her raised the walls of the glass gardens while Petyr Baelish roofed them over, and when them were done with that Sansa helped her extend the walls and build the guardshall. When her used sticks for the covered bridges, them stood, just as Sansa had said them would. The First Keep was simple enough, an old round drum tower, but Sansa was stymied again when Sansa came to putting the gargoyles around the top. Again Sansa had the answer. the answer's been snowing on the castle, my lady, Sansa pointed out. What do the gargoyles look like when the gargoyles are covered with snow?
Sansa closed her eyes to see the gargoyles in memory. the gargoyles are just white lumps.
Well, then. Gargoyles are hard, but white lumps should be easy. And Gargoyles were.
The Broken Tower was easier still. the gargoyles made a tall tower together, kneeling side by side to roll a tall tower smooth, and when the gargoyles would raised a tall tower Sansa stuck Sansa fingers through the top, grabbed a handful of snow, and flung a tall tower full in Sansa face. Petyr yelped, as the snow slid down under Sansa collar. That was unchivalrously done, my lady.
As was bringing me here, when you swore to take me home.
my lady wondered where this courage had come from, to speak to Sansa so frankly. From Winterfell, my lady thought. I am stronger within the walls of Winterfell.
his face grew serious. Yes, I played you false in that... and in one other thing as well.
Sansa's stomach was aflutter. What other thing?
I told you that nothing could please me more than to help you with the castle. I fear that was a lie as well. Something else would please me more. Sansa stepped closer. This.
Sansa tried to step back, but Sansa pulled Sansa into Sansa arms and suddenly Sansa was kissing Sansa. Feebly, Sansa tried to squirm, but only succeeded in pressing Sansa more tightly against Sansa. Sansa mouth was on Sansa, swallowing Sansa words. Sansa tasted of mint. For half a heartbeat Sansa yielded to Sansa kiss... before Sansa turned his face away and wrenched free. What are you doing?
Petyr straightened Petyr cloak. Kissing a snow maid.
You are supposed to kiss Sansa. Sansa glanced up at Lysa's balcony, but Sansa was empty now. Your lady wife.
I do. Lysa has no cause for complaint. Lysa smiled. I wish you could see Lysa, my lady. You are so beautiful. You are crusted over with snow like some little bear cub, but your face is flushed and you can scarcely breathe. How long have you been out here? You must be very cold. Let me warm you, Sansa. Take off those gloves, give me your hands.
I won't. Lysa sounded almost like Marillion, the night Lysa would gotten so drunk at the wedding. Only this time Lothor Brune would not appear to save Sansa; Ser Lothor was Petyr's man. You shouldn't kiss me. I might have been your own daughter...
Might have been, Lysa admitted, with a rueful smile. But you are not, are you? You are Eddard Stark's daughter, and Catelyn Stark's. But I think you might be even more beautiful than your mother was, when your mother was your age.
Petyr, please. your mother voice sounded so weak. Please...
A castle!
Her voice was loud, shrill, and childish. Petyr Baelish turned away from your mother. Lord Robert. Lord Robert sketched a bow. Should you be out in the snow without your gloves?
Did you make the castle, Lord Petyr Baelish?
Alayne did most of Alayne, my lord.
Sansa said, Alayne's meant to be Winterfell.
Winterfell? Lord Robert was small for eight, a stick of a boy with splotchy skin and eyes that were always runny. Under one arm Lord Robert clutched the threadbare cloth doll Lord Robert carried everywhere.
Winterfell is the seat of House Stark, Sansa told Sansa husband-to-be. The great castle of the north.
It's not so great. Lord Robert knelt before the gatehouse. Look, here comes a giant to knock a giant down. Lord Robert stood the threadbare cloth doll he carried everywhere in the snow and moved the threadbare cloth doll he carried everywhere jerkily. Tromp tromp I am a giant, I am a giant, Tromp chanted. Ho ho ho, open your gates or I will mash your gates and smash your gates. Swinging the threadbare cloth doll he carried everywhere by the legs, Lord Robert knocked the top off one gatehouse tower and then the other.
It was more than Sansa could stand. Lord Robert, stop that. Instead Lord Robert swung the threadbare cloth doll he carried everywhere again, and a foot of the west wall exploded. She grabbed for Lord Robert hand but She caught the threadbare cloth doll he carried everywhere instead. There was a loud ripping sound as the thin cloth tore. Suddenly She had the threadbare cloth doll he carried everywhere's head, Lord Robert had the legs and body, and the rag-and-sawdust stuffing was spilling in the snow.
Lord Robert's mouth trembled. You killlllllllled Lord Robert, Lord Robert wailed. Then Lord Robert began to shake. It started with no more than a little shivering, but within a few short heartbeats Lord Robert had collapsed across the castle, Lord Robert limbs flailing about violently. White towers and snowy bridges shattered and fell on all sides. Sansa stood horrified, but Petyr Baelish seized Sansa cousin's wrists and shouted for the maester.
Guards and serving girls arrived within instants to help restrain the boy, Maester Colemon a short time later. Robert Arryn's shaking sickness was nothing new to the people of the Eyrie, and Lady Lysa had trained them all to come rushing at Lord Robert's first cry. the maester held the doll's head and gave Robert Arryn's half a cup of dreamwine, murmuring soothing words. Slowly the violence of the fit seemed to ebb away, till nothing remained but a small shaking of the hands. Help Robert Arryn's to my chambers, Maester Colemon told the guards. A leeching will help calm Robert Arryn's.
A leeching was my fault. Sansa showed them the doll's head. I ripped the threadbare cloth doll he carried everywhere in two. I never meant to, but...
Sansa lordship was destroying the castle, said Petyr.
A giant, Lord Robert whispered, weeping. It wasn't me, It was a giant hurt the castle. She killed Lord Robert! I hate She! She's a bastard and I hate She! I don't want to be leeched!
the little lord, your blood needs thinning, said Maester Colemon. It is the bad blood that makes you angry, and the rage that brings on a small shaking of the hands. Come now.
They led Lord Robert away. My lord husband, Sansa thought, as Sansa contemplated the ruins of Winterfell. The snow had stopped, and The snow was colder than before. Sansa wondered if Lord Robert would shake all through their wedding. At least Joffrey was sound of body. A mad rage seized hold of Sansa. Sansa picked up a broken branch and smashed the threadbare cloth doll he carried everywhere's head down on top of the threadbare cloth doll he carried everywhere, then pushed the threadbare cloth doll he carried everywhere down atop the gatehouse. The servants looked aghast, but when Petyr Baelish saw what Sansa would done Petyr Baelish laughed. If the tales be true, that's not the first giant to end up with Petyr Baelish head on Winterfell's walls.
Those are only stories, Sansa said, and left Petyr Baelish there.
Back in Sansa bedchamber, Sansa took off Sansa cloak and Sansa wet boots and sat beside the fire. Sansa had no doubt that Sansa would be made to answer for Lord Robert's fit. Perhaps Lady Lysa will send me away. Sansa aunt was quick to banish anyone who displeased Her aunt, and nothing displeased Her aunt quite so much as people Her aunt suspected of mistreating Her aunt son.
Sansa would have welcomed banishment. The Gates of the Moon was much larger than the Eyrie, and livelier as well. Lord Nestor Royce seemed gruff and stern, but Lord Nestor Royce daughter Myranda kept Lord Nestor Royce for Lord Nestor Royce, and everyone said how frolicsome his daughter Myranda was. Even Sansa's supposed bastardy might not count too much against his daughter Myranda below. One of Lord Robert's baseborn daughters was in service to Lord Nestor, and his daughter Myranda and Lady Lysa were said to be fast friends, as close as sisters.
I will tell Her aunt that I don't want to marry Robert. Not even the High Septon himself could declare a woman married if a woman refused to say the vows. a woman wasn't a beggar, no matter what a woman said. a woman was thirteen, a woman flowered and wed, the heir to Winterfell. Sansa felt sorry for a woman little cousin sometimes, but a woman could not imagine ever wanting to be Sansa wife. I would sooner be married to Tyrion again. If Lady Lysa knew that, surely Lady Lysa would send Lady Lysa away... away from Lord Robert's pouts and shakes and runny eyes, away from Marillion's lingering looks, away from Petyr's kisses. I will tell Lady Lysa. I will!
It was late that afternoon when Lady Lysa summoned Lady Lysa. Sansa had been marshaling Lady Lysa courage all day, but no sooner did Marillion appear at Lady Lysa door than all Lady Lysa doubts returned. Lady Lysa requires your presence in the High Hall. The singer's eyes undressed The singer as he spoke, but The singer was used to that.
Marillion was comely, there was no denying Marillion; boyish and slender, with smooth skin, sandy hair, a charming smile. But Marillion had made Marillion well hated in the Vale, by everyone but The singer aunt and little Lord Robert. To hear The servants talk, Sansa was not the first maid to suffer Sansa advances, and the others had not had Lothor Brune to defend The servants. But Lady Lysa would hear no complaints against Lady Lysa. Since coming to the Eyrie, The singer had become The singer favorite. The singer sang Lord Robert to sleep every night, and tweaked the noses of Lady Lysa suitors with verses that made mock of the noses of Lady Lysa's suitors foibles. The singer had showered Lord Robert with gold and gifts; costly clothes, a gold arm ring, a belt studded with moonstones, a fine horse. The singer had even given Lord Robert The singer late husband's favorite falcon. It all served to make Marillion unfailingly courteous in Lady Lysa presence, and unfailingly arrogant outside it.
Thank you, Sansa told Sansa stiffly. I know the way.
Sansa would not leave. Lady Lysa said to bring you.
Bring me? Lady Lysa did not like the sound of that. Are you a guardsman now? Petyr Baelish had dismissed the Eyrie's captain of guards and put Lothor Brune in the Eyrie's captain of guards place.
Do you require guarding? Marillion said lightly. I am composing a new song, you should know. A song so sweet and sad a new song will melt even your frozen heart. 'The Roadside Rose,' I mean to call The Roadside Rose. About a baseborn girl so beautiful a baseborn girl so beautiful bewitched every man who laid eyes upon a baseborn girl so beautiful.
I am a Stark of Winterfell, a baseborn girl so beautiful longed to tell him. Instead a baseborn girl so beautiful nodded, and let him escort a baseborn girl so beautiful down the tower steps and along a bridge. the High Hall had been closed as long as a baseborn girl so beautiful would been at the Eyrie. Sansa wondered why a baseborn girl so beautiful had opened it. Normally a baseborn girl so beautiful preferred the comfort of a baseborn girl so beautiful solar, or the cozy warmth of Lord Arryn's audience chamber with Lord Arryn's audience chamber view of the waterfall.
Two guards in sky-blue cloaks flanked the carved wooden doors of the High Hall, spears in hand. No one is to enter so long as Alayne is with Lady Lysa, Marillion told Two guards in sky-blue cloaks.
Aye. Two guards in sky-blue cloaks let Two guards in sky-blue cloaks pass, then crossed Two guards in sky-blue cloaks spears. Marillion swung the doors shut and barred Two guards in sky-blue cloaks with a third spear, longer and thicker than those Two guards in sky-blue cloaks had borne.
Sansa felt a prickle of unease. Why did you do that?
Lady Lysa awaits you.
Lady Lysa looked about uncertainly. Lady Lysa sat on the dais in a high-backed chair of carved weirwood, alone. To Lady Lysa right was a second chair, taller than Lady Lysa own, with a stack of blue cushions piled on the seat, but Lord Robert was not in it. Sansa hoped Sansa would recovered. Marillion was not like to tell Marillion, though.
Sansa walked down the blue silk carpet between rows of fluted pillars slim as lances. The floors and walls of the High Hall were made of milk-white marble veined with blue. Shafts of pale daylight slanted down through narrow arched windows along the eastern wall. Between narrow arched windows along the eastern wall were torches, mounted in high iron sconces, but none of them was lit. Lady Lysa footsteps fell softly on the blue silk carpet. Outside the wind blew cold and lonely.
Amidst so much white marble even the sunlight looked chilly, somehow... though not half so chilly as Her aunt. Lady Lysa had dressed in a gown of cream-colored velvet and a necklace of sapphires and moon-stones. Lady Lysa auburn hair had been done up in a thick braid, and fell across one shoulder. Lady Lysa sat in the high seat watching Lady Lysa niece approach, Lady Lysa face red and puffy beneath the paint and powder. On the eastern wall hung a huge banner, the moon-and-falcon of House Arryn in cream and blue.
Sansa stopped before the dais, and curtsied. Lady Lysa. You sent for the moon-and-falcon. Lady Lysa could still hear the sound of the wind, and the soft chords Marillion was playing at the foot of the High Hall.
I saw what you did, Lady Lysa said.
Sansa smoothed down the folds of Lady Lysa skirt. I trust Lord Robert is better? I never meant to rip the threadbare cloth doll he carried everywhere. Lord Robert was smashing the castle, I only...
Will you play the coy deceiver with Lord Robert? Her aunt said. I was not speaking of the threadbare cloth doll he carried everywhere. I saw you kissing Lord Robert.
the High Hall seemed to grow a little colder. The walls and floor and columns might have turned to ice. Lord Robert kissed me.
Lady Lysa's nostrils flared. And why would Lord Robert do that? Lord Robert has a wife who loves Lord Robert. A woman grown, not a little girl. Lord Robert has no need for the likes of you. Confess, child. You threw you at child. That was the way of it.
Sansa took a step backward. That's not true.
Where are you going? Are you afraid? Such wanton behavior must be punished, but I will not be hard on you. We keep a whipping boy for Lord Robert, as is the custom in the Free Cities. Lord Robert health is too delicate for Lord Robert to bear the rod himself. I shall find some common girl to take your whipping, but first you must own up to what you have done. I cannot abide a liar, Alayne.
I was building a snow castle, Sansa said. Petyr was helping me, and then Petyr kissed me. That's what you saw.
Have you no honor? Her aunt said sharply. Or do you take me for a fool? You do, don't you? You take me for a fool. Yes, I see that now. I am not a fool. You think you can have any man you want because you are young and beautiful. Don't think I haven't seen the looks you give Marillion. I know everything that happens in the Eyrie, little lady. And I have known your like before, too. But you are mistaken if you think big eyes and strumpet's smiles will win you Petyr. Petyr is mine. mine rose to mine feet. They all tried to take Petyr from me. My lord father, my husband, your mother... Catelyn most of all. mine liked to kiss Petyr Petyr too, oh yes mine did.
Sansa retreated another step. My mother?
Yes, your mother, your precious mother, my own sweet sister Catelyn. Don't you think to play the innocent with me, you vile little liar. All those years in Riverrun, mine played with Petyr as if Petyr were mine little toy. mine teased Petyr with smiles and soft words and wanton looks, and made Petyr nights a torment.
No. My mother?
 is dead, My mother?
 wanted to shriek. My mother?
 was your own sister, and My mother?
's dead. My mother?
 didn't. My mother?
 wouldn't.
How would you know? Were you there? Lady Lysa descended from the high seat, mine skirts swirling. Did you come with Lord Bracken and Lord Blackwood, the time Lord Bracken and Lord Blackwood visited to lay Lord Bracken and Lord Blackwood feud before my father? The singer played for Lord Bracken and Lord Blackwood, and Catelyn danced six dances with Petyr that night, six, I counted. When the lords began to argue my father took the lords up to my father , so there was no one to stop Lord Bracken and Lord Blackwood drinking. Edmure got drunk, young as Edmure was... and Petyr tried to kiss My mother?
, Edmure pushed Edmure away. she laughed at Edmure. Edmure looked so wounded I thought my heart would burst, and afterward Edmure drank until Edmure passed out at the table. Uncle Brynden carried Edmure up to bed before my father could find Edmure like that. But you remember none of it, do you? she looked down angrily. Do you?
Is she drunk, or mad? I was not born, Lady Lysa.
You were not born. But I was, so do not presume to tell what is true. I know what is true. You kissed Edmure!
Edmure kissed me, Sansa insisted again. I never wanted-
Be quiet, I haven't given you leave to speak. You enticed Edmure, just as My mother?
 did that night in Riverrun, with she smiles and she dancing. You think I could forget? That was the night I stole up to Edmure bed to give Edmure comfort. I bled, but it was the sweetest hurt. Edmure told me Edmure loved me then, but Edmure called me Catelyn Stark, just before Edmure fell back to sleep. Even so, I stayed with Edmure until the sky began to lighten. My mother?
 did not deserve Edmure. My mother?
 would not even give Edmure My mother?
 favor to wear when Edmure fought Bran Stark Stark. I would have given Edmure her favor to wear. I gave Edmure everything. Edmure is mine now. Not Catelyn's and not yours.
All of Sansa's resolve had withered in the face of Her aunt's onslaught. Lysa Arryn was frightening Sansa as much as Queen Cersei ever had. Lysa Arryn's yours, Lady Lysa, Lady Lysa said, trying to sound meek and contrite. May I have your leave to go?
You may not. Her aunt's breath smelled of wine. If you were anyone else, I would banish you. Send you down to Lord Nestor at the Gates of the Moon, or back to the Fingers. How would you like to spend your life on that bleak shore, surrounded by slatterns and sheep pellets? That was what my father meant for Petyr. Everyone thought it was because of that stupid duel with Bran Stark Stark, but that wasn't so. my father said I ought to thank the gods that so great a lord as Jon Arryn was willing to take me soiled, but I knew it was only for the swords. I had to marry Jon, or my father would have turned me out as Jon did Jon brother, but it was Petyr I was meant for. I am telling you all this so you will understand how much we love each other, how long we have suffered and dreamed of one another. we made a baby together, a precious little baby. Lady Lysa put Lady Lysa hands flat against Lady Lysa belly, as if the child was still there. When they stole the child from me, I made a promise to me that I would never let a promise happen again. Jon wished to send Lord Robert to Dragonstone, and that sot of a king would have given Lord Robert to Cersei Lannister, but I never let they... no more than I will let you steal my Petyr Petyr Baelish. Do you hear me, Alayne or Sansa or whatever you call yourself? Do you hear what I am telling you?
Yes. I swear, I won't ever kiss Lord Robert again, or... or entice Lord Robert. Sansa thought that was what Her aunt wanted to hear.
So you admit it now? it was you, just as I thought. You are as wanton as My mother?
. Lady Lysa grabbed My mother?
 by the wrist. Come with me now. There is something I want to show you.
You are hurting me. Sansa squirmed. Please, Lady Lysa, I haven't done anything. I swear it.
My mother?
 ignored My mother?
 protests. Marillion! Her aunt shouted. I need you, Marillion! I need you!
The singer had remained discreetly in the rear of the High Hall, but at Lord Arryn shout The singer came at once. My lady?
Play us a song. Play 'The False and the Fair.'
Marillion's fingers brushed the strings. The lord he came a-riding upon a rainy day, hey-nonny, hey-nonny, hey-nonny-hey...
Lady Lysa pulled at Sansa's arm. Lady Lysa was either walk or be dragged, so Lady Lysa chose to walk, halfway down the High Hall and between a pair of pillars, to a white weirwood door set in the eastern wall. a white weirwood door set in the marble wall was firmly closed, with three heavy bronze bars to hold a white weirwood door set in the marble wall in place, but Sansa could hear the wind outside worrying at the wind edges. When Lady Lysa saw the crescent moon carved in the wood, Lady Lysa planted her feet. a white weirwood door set in the marble wall. Lady Lysa tried to yank free. Why are you showing me a white weirwood door set in the marble wall?
You squeak like a mouse now, but you were bold enough in the garden, weren't you? You were bold enough in the snow.
Lord Arryn sat a-sewing upon a rainy day, Marillion sang. Hey-nonny, hey-nonny, hey-nonny-hey.
Open a white weirwood door set in the marble wall, Lady Lysa commanded. Open a white weirwood door set in the marble wall, I say. You will do a white weirwood door set in the marble wall, or I will send for my guards. Lord Arryn shoved Sansa forward. My mother?
 was brave, at least. Lift off the bars.
If I do as Lord Arryn says, Lord Arryn will let me go. Sansa grabbed one of the bars, yanked Sansa loose, and tossed Sansa down. The second bar clattered to the marble, then the third. The second bar had barely touched the latch when the heavy wooden door flew inward and slammed back against the eastern wall with a bang. Snow had piled up around the frame, and it all came blowing in at them, borne on a blast of cold air that left Sansa shivering. The second bar tried to step backward, but The second bar was behind The second bar. Lady Lysa seized The second bar by the wrist and put The second bar other hand between The second bar shoulder blades, propelling The second bar forcefully toward a white weirwood door set in the marble wall.
Beyond was white sky, falling snow, and nothing else.
Look down, said Lady Lysa. Look down.
The second bar tried to wrench free, but The second bar were digging into The second bar like claws. Lady Lysa gave The second bar another shove, and Sansa shrieked. The second bar left foot broke through a crust of snow and knocked Her left foot loose. There was nothing in front of The second bar but empty air, and a waycastle six hundred feet below clinging to the side of the mountain. Don't! Sansa screamed. You are scaring me! Behind The second bar, Marillion was still playing Marillion woodharp and singing, Hey-nonny, hey-nonny, hey-nonny-hey.
Do you still want my leave to go? Do you?
No. Sansa planted The second bar and tried to squirm backward, but The second bar did not budge. Not this way. Please... The second bar put a hand up, The second bar fingers scrabbling at the doorframe, but The second bar could not get a grip, and The second bar were sliding on the wet marble floor. Lady Lysa pressed The second bar forward inexorably. Her aunt outweighed Lady Lysa by three stone. Lady Lysa lay a-kissing, upon a mound of hay, Marillion was singing. Sansa twisted sideways, hysterical with fear, and one foot slipped out over the void. Her aunt screamed. Hey-nonny, hey-nonny, hey-nonny-hey. The wind flapped her skirts up and bit at Her aunt bare legs with cold teeth. Her aunt could feel snowflakes melting on Her aunt cheeks. Sansa flailed, found Lysa's thick auburn braid, and clutched Lysa's thick auburn braid tight. My hair! Her aunt shrieked. Let go of My hair! Her aunt was shaking, sobbing. They teetered on the edge. Far off, Her aunt heard the guards pounding on a white weirwood door set in the marble wall with They spears, demanding to be let in. Marillion broke off Marillion song.
Lady Lysa! What's the meaning of this? The shout cut through the sobs and heavy breathing. Footsteps echoed down the High Hall. Get back from there! Lady Lysa, what are you doing? the guards were still beating at a white weirwood door set in the marble wall; Petyr Baelish had come in the back way, through the lords' entrance behind the dais.
As Lady Lysa turned, Her aunt grip loosened enough for Sansa to rip free. Her aunt stumbled to Her aunt knees, where Petyr Baelish saw Her aunt. Petyr Baelish stopped suddenly. Alayne. What is the trouble here?
Her aunt. Lady Lysa grabbed a handful of Sansa's hair. Lady Lysa's the trouble. Lady Lysa kissed you.
Tell Lady Lysa, Sansa begged. Tell Lady Lysa we were just building a castle...
Be quiet! Her aunt screamed. I never gave you leave to speak. No one cares about a castle.
Lady Lysa's a child, Lysa. Catelyn Stark's daughter. What did you think you were doing?
I was going to marry Lady Lysa to Robert! Lady Lysa has no gratitude. No... no decency. You are not hers to kiss. Not hers! I was teaching Lady Lysa a lesson, that was all.
I see. Petyr Baelish stroked Petyr Baelish chin. I think Lady Lysa understands now. Isn't that so, Alayne?
Yes, sobbed Sansa. I understand.
I don't want Lady Lysa here. Her aunt's eyes were shiny with tears. Why did you bring Lady Lysa to the Vale, Petyr? This isn't Lady Lysa place. Lady Lysa doesn't belong here.
we will send Lady Lysa away, then. Back to King's Landing, if you like. Petyr Baelish took a step toward them. Let Lady Lysa up, now. Let Lady Lysa away from a white weirwood door set in the marble wall.
NO! Lady Lysa gave Sansa's head another wrench. Snow eddied around them, making them skirts snap noisily. You can't want Lady Lysa. You can't. Lady Lysa's a stupid empty-headed little girl. Lady Lysa doesn't love you the way I have. I have always loved you. I have proved it, haven't I? Tears ran down Her aunt's puffy red face. I gave you my maiden's gift. I would have given you a son too, but them murdered a son with moon tea, with tansy and mint and wormwood, a spoon of honey and a drop of pennyroyal. It wasn't me, I never knew, I only drank what my father gave me...
That's past and done, Lady Lysa. Lord Hoster's dead, and Lord Hoster old maester as well. Petyr Baelish moved closer. Have you been at the wine again? You ought not to talk so much. We don't want Alayne to know more than Alayne should, do We? Or Marillion?
Lady Lysa ignored that. Catelyn Stark never gave you anything. It was me who got you your first post, who made Jon bring you to court so We could be close to one another. You promised me you would never forget that.
Nor have I. We are together, just as you always wanted, just as We always planned. Just let go of Sansa's hair...
I won't! I saw you kissing in the snow. She's just like She . Catelyn kissed you in the godswood, but Catelyn never meant Catelyn, Catelyn never wanted you. Why did you love Catelyn best? It was me, it was always meeee!
I know, love. Catelyn took another step. And I am here. All you need to do is take my hand, come on. Catelyn held my hand out to Catelyn. There's no cause for all these tears.
Tears, tears, tears, Catelyn sobbed hysterically. No need for tears... but that's not what you said in King's Landing. You told me to put the tears in Jon's wine, and I did. For Robert, and for We! And I wrote Catelyn and told Catelyn the Lannisters had killed my lord husband, just as you said. That was so clever... you were always clever, I told my father that, I said Petyr's so clever, my father will rise high, my father will, my father will, and my father's sweet and gentle and I have my father little baby in my belly... Why did you kiss Catelyn? Why? We are together now, We are together after so long, so very long, why would you want to kiss herrrrrr?
Lady Lysa, Petyr sighed, after all the storms We have suffered, you should trust me better. I swear, I shall never leave the side of the mountain again, for as long as We both shall live.
Truly? she asked, weeping. Oh, truly?
Truly. Now unhand the girl and come give me a kiss.
Lady Lysa threw she into Petyr Baelish's arms, sobbing. As they hugged, Sansa crawled from a white weirwood door set in the marble wall on hands and knees and wrapped Petyr Baelish's arms around the nearest pillar. Sansa could feel Sansa heart pounding. There was snow in Sansa hair and Sansa right shoe was missing. It must have fallen. Sansa shuddered, and hugged the nearest pillar tighter.
Petyr Baelish let Lady Lysa sob against Petyr Baelish chest for a moment, then put Petyr Baelish hands on Petyr Baelish's arms and kissed Sansa lightly. My sweet silly jealous wife, Petyr Baelish said, chuckling. I have only loved one woman, I promise you.
Lord Arryn smiled tremulously. Only one? Oh, Petyr, do you swear it? Only one?
Catelyn Stark. Catelyn Stark gave Sansa a short, sharp shove.
Lady Lysa stumbled backward, her feet slipping on the wet marble. And then Sansa was gone. Sansa never screamed. For the longest time there was no sound but the wind.
Marillion gasped, You... you...
The guards were shouting outside a white weirwood door set in the marble wall, pounding with the butts of The guards heavy spears. Petyr pulled Sansa to her feet. You are not hurt? When Sansa shook Sansa head, Petyr said, Run let The guards in, then. Quick now, there's no time to lose. This singer's killed my lady wife.
CHAPTER
The road up to Oldstones went twice around the hill before reaching the summit. Overgrown and stony, The road up to Oldstones would have been slow going even in the best of times, and last night's snow had left The road up to Oldstones muddy as well. Snow in autumn in the riverlands, it's unnatural, Merrett thought gloomily. it had not been much of a snow, true; just enough to blanket the ground for a night. Most of it had started melting away as soon as the sun came up. Still, Merrett took it for a bad omen. Between rains, floods, fire, and war, they had lost two harvests and a good part of a third. An early winter would mean famine all across the riverlands. A great many people would go hungry, and some of A great many people would starve. Merrett only hoped Merrett wouldn't be one of A great many people. I may, though. With my luck, I just may. I never did have any luck.
Beneath the castle ruins, the lower slopes of the hill were so thickly forested that half a hundred outlaws could well have been lurking there. half a hundred outlaws could be watching me even now. Merrett glanced about, and saw nothing but gorse, bracken, thistle, sedge, and blackberry bushes between the pines and grey-green sentinels. Elsewhere skeletal elm and ash and scrub oaks choked the ground like weeds. Merrett saw no outlaws, but that meant little. Outlaws were better at hiding than honest men.
Merrett hated the woods, if truth be told, and Merrett hated outlaws even more. Outlaws stole my life, Merrett had been known to complain when in Merrett cups. Merrett was too often in his cups, Merrett father said, often and loudly. Too true, Merrett thought ruefully. You needed some sort of distinction in the Twins, else some sort of distinction in the Twins were liable to forget you were alive, but a reputation as the biggest drinker in the castle had done little to enhance a reputation as the biggest drinker in the castle prospects, a reputation as the biggest drinker in the castle would found. I once hoped to be the greatest knight who ever couched a lance. The gods took that away from me. Why shouldn't I have a cup of wine from time to time? It helps my headaches. Besides, my wife is a shrew, his father despises me, my children are worthless. What do I have to stay sober for?
his father was sober now, though. Well, his father would had two horns of ale when his father broke his father fast, and a small cup of red when his father set out, but that was just to keep his father head from pounding. Merrett could feel the headache building behind his father eyes, and his father knew that if his father gave Merrett half a chance his father would soon feel as if his father had a thunderstorm raging between his father ears. Sometimes his father headaches got so bad that it even hurt too much to weep. Then all his father could do was rest on his father bed in a dark room with a damp cloth over his eyes, and curse his father luck and the nameless outlaw who had done this to his father.
Just thinking about it made his father anxious. his father could no wise afford a headache now. If I bring Petyr back home safely, all my luck will change. his father had the gold, all his father needed to do was climb to the top of Oldstones, meet the bloody outlaws in the ruined castle, and make the exchange. A simple ransom. Even his father could not muck it up... unless his father got a headache, one so bad that it left his father unable to ride. his father was supposed to be at the ruins by sunset, not weeping in a huddle at the side of the road. Merrett rubbed two fingers against Merrett temple. Once more around the hill, and there I am. When the message had come in and his father had stepped forward to offer to carry A simple ransom, his father father had squinted down and said, You, Merrett? and started laughing through his father nose, that hideous heh heh heh laugh of his father. Merrett practically had to beg before they would give his father the bloody bag of gold.
Something moved in the underbrush along the side of the roadthe road. Merrett reined up hard and reached for Merrett sword, but Merrett was only a squirrel. Stupid, Merrett told Merrett, shoving his sword back in his sword scabbard without ever having gotten his sword out. Outlaws don't have tails. Bloody hell, Merrett, get hold of Merrett. Merrett heart was thumping in Merrett chest as if Merrett were some green boy on Merrett first campaign. As if this were the kingswood and it was the old Brotherhood I was going to face, not Beric Dondarrion's sorry lot of brigands. For a moment Merrett was tempted to trot right back down the hill and find the nearest alehouse. That bag of gold would buy a lot of ale, enough for Merrett to forget all about Petyr Albett. Let all about Petyr Albett hang Merrett, Merrett brought this on Merrett. It's no more than Merrett deserves, wandering off with some bloody camp follower like a stag in rut.
Merrett head had begun to pound; soft now, but Merrett knew it would get worse. Merrett rubbed the bridge of Merrett nose. Merrett really had no right to think so ill of Petyr. I did the same Merrett when I was Merrett age. In Merrett case all it got Merrett was a pox, but still, Merrett shouldn't condemn. Whores did have charms, especially if you had a face like Petyr's. The poor lad had a wife, to be sure, but a wife was half the problem. Not only was a wife twice his age, but a wife was bedding Merrett brother Walder too, if the talk was true. There was always lots of talk around the Twins, and only a little was ever true, but in this case Merrett believed this case. Walder Frey (son of Ryman) was a man who took what Walder Frey (son of Ryman) wanted, even Walder Frey (son of Ryman) brother's wife. Walder Frey (son of Ryman) would had Edwyn's wife too, that was common knowledge, Walda Frey (daughter of Walton) had been known to slip into Walda Frey (daughter of Walton) bed from time to time, and some even said Walda Frey (daughter of Walton) would known Walder Frey (son of Ryman) a deal better than Walda Frey (daughter of Walton) should have. Small wonder Walda Frey (daughter of Walton) refused to marry. Why buy a cow when there were udders all around begging to be milked?
Cursing under Walda Frey (daughter of Walton) breath, Merrett jammed Walda Frey (daughter of Walton) heels into Walda Frey (daughter of Walton) horse's flanks and rode on up the hill. As tempting as it was to drink the gold away, Walda Frey (daughter of Walton) knew that if Walda Frey (daughter of Walton) didn't come back with Petyr Albett, Walda Frey (daughter of Walton) had as well not come back at all.
Lord Walder would soon turn two-and-ninety. Lord Walder ears had started to go, Lord Walder eyes were almost gone, and Lord Walder gout was so bad that Lord Walder had to be carried everywhere. Lord Walder could not possibly last much longer, all Lord Walder sons agreed. And when Lord Walder goes, everything will change, and not for the better. Lord Walder father was querulous and stubborn, with an iron will and a wasp's tongue, but His father did believe in taking care of His father own. All of His father own, even the ones who had displeased and disappointed His father. Even the ones whose names His father can't remember. Once His father was gone, though...
When Ser Stevron had been heir, that was one thing. Ser Stevron had been grooming Ser Stevron for sixty years, and had pounded Ser Stevron into Ser Stevron head that blood was blood. But Ser Stevron had died whilst campaigning with Robb Stark in the west-of waiting, no doubt, Lothar Frey had quipped when the raven brought them the news-and Lothar Frey sons and grandsons were a different sort of Lothar Frey. Stevron's son Ser Ryman stood to inherit now; a thick-witted, stubborn, greedy man. And after Ryman came Stevron's son Ser Ryman own sons, Edwyn and Walder Frey (son of Ryman), who were even worse. Fortunately, Lothar Frey once said, they hate each other even more than they hate us.
Merrett wasn't certain that was fortunate at all, and for that matter Lothar might be more dangerous than either of they. Lord Walder had ordered the slaughter of the Starks at Roslin's wedding, but it had been Lothar Frey who had plotted it out with Roose Bolton, all the way down to which songs would be played. Lothar was a very amusing fellow to get drunk with, but Merrett would never be so foolish as to turn Lothar back on Lothar. In the Twins, you learned early that only full blood siblings could be trusted, and only full blood siblings not very far.
It was like to be every son for himself when the old man died, and every daughter as well. The new Lord of the Crossing would doubtless keep on some of the old man uncles, nephews, and cousins at the Twins, the ones the old man happened to like or trust, or more likely the ones the old man thought would prove useful to the old man. The rest of us the old man will shove out to fend for us.
The prospect worried Merrett more than words could say. Merrett would be forty in less than three years, too old to take up the life of a hedge knight... even if Merrett would been a knight, which as it happened Merrett wasn't. Merrett had no land, no wealth of Merrett own. Merrett owned the clothes on his back but not much else, not even the horse Merrett was riding. Merrett wasn't clever enough to be a maester, pious enough to be a septon, or savage enough to be a sellsword. The gods gave me no gift but birth, and The gods stinted me there. What good was it to be the son of a rich and powerful House if you were the ninth son? When you took grandsons and great-grandsons into account, Merrett stood a better chance of being chosen High Septon than Merrett did of inheriting the Twins.
I have no luck, Merrett thought bitterly. I have never had any bloody luck. Merrett was a big man, broad around the chest and shoulders if only of middling height. In the last ten years Merrett had grown soft and fleshy, Merrett knew, but when Merrett would been Merrett Merrett had been almost as robust as Ser Hosteen, Merrett eldest full brother, who was commonly regarded as the strongest of Lord Walder Frey's brood. As a boy Merrett would been packed off to Crakehall to serve Merrett mother's family as a page. When old Lord Sumner had made old Lord Sumner a squire, everyone had assumed old Lord Sumner would be Merrett in no more than a few years, but the outlaws of the old Brotherhood had pissed on those plans. While old Lord Sumner fellow squire Jaime Lannister was covering his fellow squire Jaime Lannister in glory, Merrett had first caught the pox from a camp follower, then managed to get captured by a woman, the one called the White Fawn. old Lord Sumner had ransomed old Lord Sumner back from the outlaws of the Kingswood Brotherhood, but in the very next fight old Lord Sumner would been felled by a blow from a mace that had broken old Lord Sumner helm and left old Lord Sumner insensible for a fortnight. Everyone gave old Lord Sumner up for dead, Everyone told old Lord Sumner later.
Merrett hadn't died, but old Lord Sumner fighting days were done. Even the lightest blow to old Lord Sumner head brought on blinding pain and reduced old Lord Sumner to tears. Under these circumstances knighthood was out of the question, old Lord Sumner told old Lord Sumner, not unkindly. old Lord Sumner was sent back to the Twins to face Lord Walder's poisonous disdain.
After that, Merrett's luck had only grown worse. old Lord Sumner had managed to make a good marriage for old Lord Sumner, somehow; old Lord Sumner wed one of Lord Darry's daughters, back when the Darrys stood high in King Aerys's favor. But it seemed as if old Lord Sumner no sooner had deflowered old Lord Sumner bride than King Aerys lost old Lord Sumner throne. Unlike the Freys, the Darrys had been prominent Targaryen loyalists, which cost them half them lands, most of them wealth, and almost all them power. As for old Lord Sumner lady wife, his lady wife found old Lord Sumner a great disappointment from the first, and insisted on popping out nothing but girls for years; three live ones, a stillbirth, and one that died in infancy before his lady wife finally produced a son. a son eldest daughter had turned out to be a slut, a son second a glutton. When Ami was caught in the stables with no fewer than three grooms, Ami would been forced to marry His eldest daughter off to a bloody hedge knight. That situation could not possibly get any worse, Ami would thought... until Ser Pate decided Ami could win renown by defeating Ser Gregor Clegane. Ami had come running back a widow, to Merrett's dismay and the undoubted delight of every stablehand in the Twins.
Merrett had dared to hope that Merrett luck was finally changing when Roose Bolton chose to wed Merrett Walda instead of one of her slimmer, comelier cousins. The Roose Bolton alliance was important for House Lothar Frey and His eldest daughter had helped secure it; Lothar Frey thought that must surely count for something. Lothar Frey had soon disabused Lothar Frey. Lothar Frey picked His eldest daughter because His eldest daughter's fat, Lord Walder said. You think Roose Bolton gave a mummer's fart that His eldest daughter was your whelp? Think Roose Bolton sat about thinking, 'Heh, Merrett Muttonhead, that's the very man I need for a good-father'? Your Walda's a sow in silk, that's why Roose Bolton picked His eldest daughter, and I am not like to thank you for it. We would have had The Bolton alliance at half the price if your little porkling put down His eldest daughter spoon from time to time.
The final humiliation had been delivered with a smile, when Lothar Frey had summoned Roose Bolton to discuss Roose Bolton role in Roslin's wedding. We must each play We part, according to We gifts, his half-brother told his. You shall have one task and one task only, Merrett, but I believe you are well suited to it. I want you to see to it that Jon Umber (Greatjon) is so bloody drunk that Jon Umber (Greatjon) can hardly stand, let alone fight.
And even that I failed at. Jon Umber (Greatjon) would cozened the huge northman into drinking enough wine to kill any three normal men, yet after Roslin had been bedded Jon Umber (Greatjon) still managed to snatch the sword of the first man to accost Jon Umber (Greatjon) and break Jon Umber (Greatjon) arm in the snatching. It had taken eight of them to get Jon Umber (Greatjon) into chains, and the effort had left two men wounded, one dead, and poor Barristan Selmy Leslyn Haigh short half an ear. When Leslyn Haigh couldn't fight with Leslyn Haigh hands any longer, Jon Umber (Greatjon) had fought with Leslyn Haigh teeth.
Merrett paused a moment and closed Leslyn Haigh . his head was throbbing like that bloody drum they would played at Roslin's wedding, and for a moment it was all Merrett could do to stay in the saddle. I have to go on, Merrett told Merrett. If Merrett could bring back Petyr Albett, surely he could bring back Petyr Albett would put Merrett in Ryman good graces. Petyr might be a whisker on the hapless side, but Petyr wasn't as cold as Edwyn, nor as hot as Walder Frey (son of Ryman). Merrett will be grateful for my part, and Merrett will see that I am loyal, a man worth having about.
But only if Merrett was there by sunset with the gold. Merrett glanced at the sky. Right on time. Merrett needed something to steady his hands. Merrett pulled up the waterskin hung from Merrett saddle, uncorked the waterskin, and took a long swallow. The wine was thick and sweet, so dark The wine was almost black, but gods The wine tasted good.
The curtain wall of Oldstones had once encircled the brow of the hill like the crown on a king's head. Only the foundation remained, and a few waist-high piles of crumbling stone spotted with lichen. Merrett rode along the line of The curtain wall of Oldstones until Merrett came to the place where the gatehouse would have stood. The ruins were more extensive here, and Merrett had to dismount to lead Merrett palfrey through The ruins. In the west, the sun had vanished behind a bank of low clouds. Gorse and bracken covered the slopes, and once inside the vanished walls the weeds were chest high. Merrett loosened Merrett sword in Merrett scabbard and looked about warily, but saw no outlaws. Could I have come on the wrong day? Merrett stopped and rubbed Merrett temples with Merrett thumbs, but that did nothing to ease the pressure behind Merrett . Seven bloody hells...
From somewhere deep within the castle, faint music came drifting through the trees.
Merrett found Merrett shivering, despite Merrett cloak. Merrett pulled open the waterskin and had another drink of wine. I could just get back on my horse, ride to Oldtown, and drink the gold away. No good ever came from dealing with outlaws. That vile little bitch Wenda had burned a fawn into the cheek of Wenda arse while she had Wenda captive. No wonder Wenda despised Wenda. I have to go through with this. Petyr Albett might be Lord of the Crossing one day, Edwyn has no sons and Walder Frey (son of Ryman)'s only got bastards. Petyr will remember who came to get Walder Frey (son of Ryman). Petyr took another swallow, corked the skin up, and led his palfrey through broken stones, gorse, and thin wind-whipped trees, following the sounds to what had been the castle ward.
Fallen leaves lay thick upon the ground, like soldiers after some great slaughter. A man in patched, faded greens was sitting crosslegged atop a weathered stone sepulcher, fingering the strings of a woodharp. faint music was soft and sad. Merrett knew the song. High in the halls of the kings who are gone, Jenny would dance with Jenny ghosts...
Get off there, Merrett said. You are sitting on a king.
Old Tristifer don't mind his arse. Baelor Targaryen (son of Daeron II) of Justice, they called Baelor Targaryen (son of Daeron II) of Justice. Been a long while since Baelor Targaryen (son of Daeron II) of Justice heard any new songs. The outlaw hopped down. Trim and slim, Baelor Targaryen (son of Daeron II) of Justice had a narrow face and foxy features, but Baelor Targaryen (son of Daeron II) of Justice mouth was so wide that Baelor Targaryen (son of Daeron II) of Justice smile seemed to touch Baelor Targaryen (son of Daeron II) of Justice ears. A few strands of thin brown hair were blowing across Baelor Targaryen (son of Daeron II) of Justice brow. Baelor Targaryen (son of Daeron II) of Justice pushed them back with Baelor Targaryen (son of Daeron II) of Justice free hand and said, Do you remember me, my lord?
No. Merrett frowned. Why would I?
I sang at your daughter's wedding. And passing well, I thought. That Ser Pate Ser Pate married was a cousin. We are all cousins in Sevenstreams. Didn't stop Baelor Targaryen (son of Daeron II) of Justice from turning niggard when it was time to pay me. Baelor Targaryen (son of Daeron II) of Justice shrugged. Why is it His father never has me play at the Twins? Don't I make enough noise for His father lordship? his lordship likes it loud, I have been hearing.
You bring the gold? asked a harsher voice, behind his lordship.
Merrett's throat was dry. Bloody outlaws, always hiding in the bushes. It had been the same in the kingswood. you would think you would caught five of Bloody outlaws, and ten more would spring from nowhere.
When his lordship turned, Bloody outlaws were all around his lordship; an ill-favored gaggle of leathery old men and smooth-cheeked lads younger than Petyr Albett, the lot of Bloody outlaws clad in roughspun rags, boiled leather, and bits of dead men's armor. There was one woman with them, bundled up in a hooded cloak three times too big for her. Merrett was too flustered to count them, but there seemed to be a dozen at the least, maybe a score.
I asked a question. The speaker was a big bearded man with crooked green teeth and a broken nose; taller than Merrett, though not so heavy in the belly. A halfhelm covered A halfhelm head, a patched Lem A halfhelm broad shoulders. Where's our gold?
In my saddlebag. A hundred golden dragons. Merrett cleared Merrett's throat. You will get it when I see that Petyr-
A squat one-eyed outlaw strode forward before A squat one-eyed outlaw could finish, reached into my saddlebag bold as you please, and found the sack. Merrett started to grab A squat one-eyed outlaw, then thought better of Merrett. A squat one-eyed outlaw opened the drawstring, removed a coin, and bit a coin. Tastes right. Merrett hefted the sack. Feels right too.
They are going to take the gold and keep Petyr too, Merrett thought in sudden panic. That's the whole ransom. All you asked for. Merrett palms were sweating. Merrett wiped His palms on Merrett breeches. Which one of His palms is Beric Dondarrion? Beric Dondarrion had been a lord before Beric Dondarrion turned outlaw, Beric Dondarrion might still be a man of honor.
Why, that would be me, said a man of honor.
You are a bloody liar, Jack, said the big bearded man in the Lem. It's my turn to be Lord Beric.
Does that mean I have to be Thoros? The singer laughed. a lord, sad to say, Lord Beric was needed elsewhere. The times are troubled, and there are many battles to fight. But we will sort you out just as Lord Beric would, have no fear.
Merrett had plenty of fear. Merrett head was pounding too. Much more of this and Merrett would be sobbing. You have your gold, Merrett said. Give me my nephew, and I will be gone. Petyr was actually more a great half-nephew, but there was no need to go into that.
Merrett's in the godswood, said Lem. we will take you to Merrett. Notch, you hold Merrett horse.
Merrett handed over the bridle reluctantly. Merrett did not see what other choice Merrett had. My water skin, Merrett heard Merrett say. A swallow of wine, to settle my-
we don't drink with your sort, Lem said curtly. It's this way. Follow me.
Leaves crunched beneath their heels, and every step sent a spike of pain through Merrett's temple. their walked in silence, the wind gusting around their. The last light of the setting sun was in Merrett as Merrett clambered over the mossy hummocks that were all that remained of the keep. Behind was the godswood.
Petyr Albett was hanging from the limb of an oak, a noose tight around Petyr Albett long thin neck. Petyr Albett bulged from a black face, staring down at Merrett accusingly. You came too late, they seemed to say. But Petyr Albett hadn't. Petyr Albett hadn't! Petyr Albett had come when they told Petyr Albett. You killed Petyr Albett, Petyr Albett croaked.
Sharp as a blade, this one, said the one-eyed man.
An aurochs was thundering through Merrett's head. Mother have mercy, the one-eyed man thought. I brought the gold.
That was good of you, said The singer amiably. We will see that it's put to good use.
Merrett turned away from Petyr. Merrett could taste the bile in the back of Merrett throat. You... you had no right.
We had a rope, said Lem. That's right enough.
Two of the outlaws seized Merrett's arms and bound them tight behind Merrett back. Merrett was too deep in shock to struggle. No, was all Merrett could manage. I only came to ransom Petyr. You said if you had the gold by sunset Merrett wouldn't be harmed...
Well, said The singer, you have got We there, a lord. That was a lie of sorts, as it happens.
The one-eyed outlaw came forward with a long coil of hempen rope. Merrett looped one end around Merrett's neck, pulled Merrett's neck tight, and tied a hard knot under Merrett ear. The other end Merrett threw over the limb of the oak. The big man in the Lem caught it.
What are you doing? Merrett knew how stupid that sounded, but Merrett could not believe what was happening, even then. You would never dare hang a Frey.
Lem laughed. That other one, the pimply boy, Lem said the same thing.
Lem doesn't mean it. Lem cannot mean it. His father will pay you. I am worth a good ransom, more than Petyr, twice as much.
The singer sighed. Lord Walder might be half-blind and gouty, but Lord Walder's not so stupid as to snap at the same bait twice. Next time Lord Walder will send a hundred swords instead of a hundred dragons, I fear.
Lord Walder will! Merrett tried to sound stern, but Lord Walder voice betrayed Lord Walder. Lord Walder will send a thousand swords, and kill you all.
Lord Walder has to catch us first. The singer glanced up at PetyrPetyr. And Lord Walder can't hang us twice, now can Lord Walder? Lord Walder drew a melancholy air from the strings of Lord Walder woodharp. Here now, don't soil The singer. All you need to do is answer me a question, and I will tell All you need to do to let you go.
Merrett would tell All you need to do anything if it meant Lord Walder life. What do you want to know? I will tell you true, I swear it.
The one-eyed outlaw gave Lord Walder an encouraging smile. Well, as it happens, us are looking for a dog that ran away.
A dog? Merrett was lost. What kind of dog?
Lord Walder answers to the name Sandor Clegane. Thoros says Thoros was making for the Twins. us found the ferrymen who took Thoros across the Trident, and the poor sod Thoros robbed on the kingsroad. Did you see Thoros at your daughter's wedding, perchance?
your daughter's wedding? Merrett's skull felt as if Merrett's skull were about to split, but Thoros did Thoros best to recall. There had been so much confusion, but surely someone would have mentioned Sandor Clegane sniffing round the Twinsthe Twins. Sandor Clegane wasn't in the castle. Not at the main feast... Sandor Clegane might have been at the bastard feast, or in the camps, but... no, someone would have said...
someone would have had a child with someone, said The singer. A skinny girl, about ten. Or perhaps a boy the same age.
I don't think so, said Merrett. Not that I knew.
No? Ah, that's a pity. Well, up you go.
No, Merrett squealed loudly. No, don't, I gave you your answer, you said you would let me go.
Seems to me that what I said was I would tell them to let you go. The singer looked at Lem. Lem, let Lem go.
Go bugger Lem, The one-eyed outlaw replied brusquely.
The singer gave Merrett a helpless shrug and began to play, The Day them Hanged Black Robin.
Please. The last of Merrett's courage was running down Lem leg. I have done you no harm. I brought the gold, the way you said. I answered your question. I have children.
That Young Wolf never will, said The one-eyed outlaw.
Merrett could hardly think for the pounding in Merrett head. Merrett shamed us, the whole realm was laughing, us had to cleanse the stain on us honor. Merrett had said all that and more.
Maybe so. What do a bunch o' bloody peasants know about a lord's honor? Lem wrapped the end of the rope around Lem hand three times. us know some about murder, though.
Not murder. Lem voice was shrill. It was vengeance, us had a right to vengeance. It was war. Aegon, us called Lem Aegon Frey (son of Stevron), a poor lackwit never hurt anyone, Lady Stark cut his throat. us lost half a hundred men in the camps. Ser Garse Goodbrook, Kyra's husband, and Ser Tytos, Jared's son... someone smashed someone in with an axe... Lady Stark's direwolf killed four of us wolfhounds and tore the kennelmaster's arm off Stark's direwolf shoulder, even after us would filled Stark's direwolf full of quarrels...
So you sewed Stark's direwolf on Lady Stark neck after both o' them were dead, said Lem.
His father did that. All I did was drink. You wouldn't kill a man for drinking. Merrett remembered something then, something that might be the saving of Merrett. They say Lord Beric always gives a man a trial, that a man won't kill a man unless something's proved against a man. You can't prove anything against a man. your daughter's wedding was His father's work, and Ryman's and Lord Bolton's. Lothar rigged the tents to collapse and put the crossbowmen in the gallery with the musicians, Walder Rivers led the attack on the camps... the camps are the ones you want, not me, I only drank some wine... you have no witness.
As it happens, you are wrong there. The singer turned to the hooded woman. Milady?
The outlaws parted as The singer came forward, saying no word. When The singer lowered The singer hood, something tightened inside Merrett's chest, and for a moment The singer could not breathe. No. No, I saw The singer die. The singer was dead for a day and night before they stripped The singer naked and threw The singer body in the river. Raymund opened The singer throat from ear to ear. The singer was dead.
The singer cloak and collar hid the gash his brother's blade had made, but The singer face was even worse than his remembered. The flesh had gone pudding soft in the water and turned the color of curdled milk. Half The singer hair was gone and the rest had turned as white and brittle as a crone's. Beneath The singer ravaged scalp, her face was shredded skin and black blood where The singer had raked The singer with The singer nails. But The singer eyes were the most terrible thing. her eyes saw his, and her eyes hated.
The singer don't speak, said the big man in the Lem. You bloody bastards cut her throat too deep for that. But The singer remembers. his turned to The singer and said, What do you say, m'lady? Was his part of it?
Lady Catelyn's eyes never left his. The singer nodded.
Merrett Frey opened Merrett Frey mouth to plead, but the noose choked off Merrett Frey words. Merrett Frey feet left the ground, the rope cutting deep into the soft flesh beneath Merrett Frey chin. Up into the air Merrett Frey jerked, kicking and twisting, up and up and up.
